.TH BPUTCHAR 3L "630 MTG"
.SH NAME
bputchar \- 630 MTG debugging putchar function
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
void bputchar (c)
.br
\f3char c;\f1
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIBputchar\fR is
syntactically equivalent to the UNIX standard I/O putchar function.
It can be called by downloaded application programs who
want to display characters but do not want them displayed in their window.
When first called, the bottom third of the 630 MTG's screen is cleared.
All characters to be printed are displayed in this area as if it was
a window. This will corrupt any windows already in this area. Therefore,
this routine is only useful for debugging.
.PP
How characters are eventually
displayed on a user's terminal when using the UNIX putchar function
is affected by the UNIX host \fIstty\fR(1) settings
and the user's terminal characteristics.
Since \fIbputchar\fR displays directly onto the 630 MTG
screen, it makes assumptions about desired \fIstty\fR
settings. In general, \fIbputchar\fR does as little processing of
the output stream as practical. 
.P
The following are the only control characters processed by \fIbputchar\fR.
All other characters will be displayed as \fBASCII\fR characters:
.TP
.B \er
Carriage Return. Move the current point to the left edge of the screen.
.TP
.B \en
Newline. Move the current point down one line and to the left edge of the 
window. Scroll the display area if necessary.
.TP
.B \et
Horizontal tab. Tab characters are expanded to spaces with tab stops at every
eighth space.
.SH EXAMPLE
.LP
If a programmer wanted a record of every character it sends to the printer,
he can replace every call to \fIpsendchar\fR with \fIdpsendchar\fR shown below.
.PP
.RS 3
.ft CM
.nf

int psendchar();

int
dpsendchar(c)
char c;
{
	int retval;

	retval = psendchar(c);
	if(retval)
		bputchar(c);
	return(retval);
}


.fi
.ft R
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
lputchar(3L), printf(3L), psendchar(3R).
.br
putc(3S) in the \fIUNIX System V Programmer's Reference Manual\fR.
