.\"#ident	"@(#)ccsman:g3c/ctype	1.2.1.1"
'\"macro stdmacro
.nr X
.if \nX=0 .ds x} CTYPE 3L "630 MTG" "\&"
.TH \*(x}
.SH NAME
ctype: isdigit, isxdigit, islower, isupper, isalpha, isalnum, isspace, iscntrl, ispunct, isprint, isgraph, isascii \- character handling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <ccs/ctype.h>
.PP
.B int isdigit (c)
.br
.B int c;
.PP
.B . . .
.PP
.B isascii (c)
.br
.B int c;
.PP
.B . . .
.br
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
The character classification macros listed below
return nonzero for true,
zero for false.
.I isascii\^
is defined on all integer values;
the rest are defined on valid members of the character set
and on the single value -1
(guaranteed not to be a character set member).
.TP 15n
.I isdigit\^
tests for the digits 0 through 9.
.TP
.I isxdigit\^
tests for any character for which \fIisdigit\fP is true or for
the letters \fIa\fP through \fIf\fP or \fIA\fP through \fIF\fP.
.TP
.I islower\^
tests for any lowercase letter as defined by the character set.
.TP
.I isupper\^
tests for any uppercase letter as defined by the character set.
.TP
.I isalpha\^
tests for any character for which \fIislower\fP or \fIisupper\fP is true and
possibly any others as defined by the character set.
.TP
.I isalnum\^
tests for any character for which \fIisalpha\fP or \fIisdigit\fP is true.
.TP
.I isspace\^
tests for a space, horizontal-tab, carriage return, newline, vertical-tab,
or form-feed.
.TP
.I iscntrl\^
tests for ``control characters'' as defined by the character set.
.TP
.I ispunct\^
tests for any character other than the ones for which \fIisalnum\fP, \fIiscntrl\fP,
or \fIisspace\fP is true or space.
.TP
.I isprint\^
tests for a space or any character for which \fIisalnum\fP or \fIispunct\fP is true 
or other ``printing character'' as defined by the character set.
.TP
.I isgraph\^
tests for any character for which \fIisprint\fP is true, except for space.
.TP
.I isascii\^
tests for an \s-1ASCII\s0 character (a non-negative number less than 0200.)
.PP
All the character classification macros
do a table lookup.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
conv(3L),
ascii(5).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
If the argument to any of the character handling macros  
is not in the domain of the function, the result is undefined.
.Ee
