.ds ZZ DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH FONTREQUEST 3R "630 MTG"
.XE "fontrequest()"
.XE "fontrelease()"
.XE "fontavail()"
.SH NAME
fontrequest, fontrelease, fontavail \- request/release use of a font
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmd.h>
.br
.B #include <font.h>
.sp
.B Font \(**fontrequest (fname)
.sp
.B void fontrelease (fname)
.sp
.B Font \(**fontavail (fname)
.sp
.B char \(**fname;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Fname
points to a font name,
a null terminated string of up to 14 characters.
.PP
The
.I fontrequest
function returns a pointer to a font of the given name in the font cache.
This routine will return 0 if one of the following conditions is true:
.IP "-" 
there is no font of the given name in the cache,
.IP "-"
there is no more memory to attach the
request information to the font,
.IP "-"
the calling process has already
requested the named font.
.PP
While the font is requested, no 
process can remove it from the cache until it is released.
.PP
The
.I fontrelease
function tells the cache that the named font is no longer being
used by the calling process. This is automatically done
for all the fonts that a process has requested when that
process exits or is deleted.
.PP
The
.I fontavail
function returns a pointer to the named font if it is in
the font cache; 0, otherwise. This function is used
only to check if a given font is in the cache, and it cannot
substitute for \fIfontrequest\fR if the application intends
to make use of the font.

.SH SEE ALSO
fontname(3R), fontsave(3L), infont(3R/3L), structures(3R).
