.ds ZZ DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH GLOBALS 3R "630 MTG"
.XE "physical"
.XE "display"
.XE "Drect"
.XE "Jrect"
.XE "mouse"
.XE "PtCurrent"
.SH NAME
globals: physical, display, Drect, Jrect, PtCurrent, P, mouse \- globals describing display and mouse
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmd.h>
.sp
.B Bitmap physical;
.PP
.B Bitmap display;
.PP
.B Rectangle Drect;
.PP
.B Rectangle Jrect;
.PP
.B Point PtCurrent;
.PP
.B #define XMAX  1024
.br
.B #define YMAX 1024
.PP
.B #define INSET 4
.PP
.B struct Mouse {
.RS 3
.br
.B        Point xy;
.br
.B        Point jxy;
.br
.B        short buttons;
.br
.RE
.B } mouse;
.PP
.B Proc \(**P;
.SH DESCRIPTION
Each global is defined when
.B dmd.h
is included.
One should not include these definitions in their source code.
.PP
The global
.I physical
is a Bitmap describing the entire screen display in screen coordinates.
.PP
The global
.I display
is the Bitmap describing an individual window in screen coordinates.
.PP
The global
.I Drect
is a Rectangle
defining, in screen coordinates,
the display area available to the program.
It is not
.I display.rect,
which includes the border around each window.
.PP
The global
.I Jrect
is the Rectangle
{ 0, 0, \fIXMAX\fR, \fIYMAX\fR }
.PP
The global
.I PtCurrent
is the current Point in window coordinates which the j-routines reference and update.
.PP
The values
.I XMAX
and
.I YMAX
define the maximum x and y coordinates of the 630 MTG screen.
These are the same as
.I physical.rect.corner.x
and
.IR physical.rect.corner.y .
.PP
The value
.I INSET
is the width of the border around a window.
Therefore,
.I Drect
is the same as
.IR inset(display.rect,INSET) .
.PP
The global
.I mouse
is a location containing the current mouse coordinates
and button states.
The Point
.I xy
is in screen coordinates;
.I jxy
is in window coordinates.
The
.I buttons
field is a bit vector of the mouse buttons that is
most easily interpreted by using the button macros.
The
.I mouse
is updated only when requested and the window is current.
.PP
\f2P\f1 is a special variable used by the 630 MTG. It
represents the running process. A process can be a downloaded
application or the default terminal emulator or an internal
maintenance process. An example is the ``control'' process
that puts up the button 3 global menu.
.PP
The 630 MTG changes the value of \f2P\f1 whenever one process
switches out through ``wait'' or ``sleep'' to let another run.
It always points to the running process's table (Proc). Many
routines either update \f2P\f1 or use \f2P\f1 to find
information specific to the process. For example, the memory
allocator ``alloc'' uses \f2P\f1 to record who owns the memory
requested. The ``allocown'' routine can be used to change
this.
.SH SEE ALSO
alloc(3R), btoc(3R), buttons(3R/3L), inset(3R), resources(3R),
sleep(3R), structures(3R), transform(3R/3L).
.SH WARNING
These globals (except XMAX, YMAX, and INSET) reside in the terminal.
They cannot be used in automatic initializations of a program's
global variables.
