.ds ZZ DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH KEYBOARD 3R "630 MTG"
.XE "keyboard"
.XE "NOPFEXPAND"
.XE "NOCURSEXPAND"
.XE "NOPADEXPAND"
.XE "NOTRANSLATE"
.XE "reqkbdID()"
.SH NAME
keyboard: P->state, SCRLOCKREQD, SCR_LOCK, NOPFEXPAND, NOCURSEXPAND, NOPADEXPAND, NOTRANSLATE, reqkbdID( ) \- per process keyboard states, keyboard ID

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmd.h>
.sp
.B long P->state;
.sp
.B void reqkbdID ( )

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I P->state
is the state variable for an application running in the 630
MTG.
.PP
An application can give different interpretations on 
groups of 630 MTG supported keyboard keys by
setting corresponding bits in the process state variable.
The groups are Scroll Lock key, programmable function keys, arrow keys,
numerical keypad keys, or the whole keyboard. If
the bits are not set, when a key is depressed, the
keyboard will send to the process the ASCII/hexadecimal code(s) as specified 
by the \fI630 MTG Terminal User's Guide\fR.
An exception is the Scroll Lock key
which is a "dead" key (no special processing) if it is not requested
and processed by the application itself.
.PP
If an application program wishes to implement local 
terminal flow control with the
keyboard Scroll Lock key, it must request the use of the Scroll Lock key
by setting the \s-1SCRLOCKREQD\s+1 in the state variable as follows:
.sp
.ft CM
.ce
P->state |= SCRLOCKREQD;
.ft R
.PP
The application program can then determine if the Scroll Lock key has been
depressed by checking the SCR_LOCK bit as follows:
.sp
.ft CM
.ce
P->state & SCR_LOCK;
.ft R
.PP
The SCR_LOCK bit is set whenever the Scroll Lock key is depressed. It is 
automatically cleared by the keyboard when the Scroll Lock key is depressed a second time.
.PP
The programmable function (PF) keys, 
when depressed are expanded by default,
i.e., the corresponding character strings (minus the \s-1NULL\s+1 character)
stored in the non-volatile BRAM memory will be sent to the process as would
be typed from the keyboard. If an application prefers to have its own interpretation
of the programmable function keys,
it is necessary to set a bit in the process state variable:
.sp
.nf
.ft CM
.ce
P->state |= NOPFEXPAND;
.ft R
.fi
.sp
In this case, the keyboard will only send to the process the PF key keycode
which is 0x80 for PF key F1, 0x81 for PF key F2, and so forth.
.PP

If a program wants to interpret the arrow keys without having to parse
their entire sequence, it can set a bit in the process state variable:
.sp
.nf
.ft CM
.ce
P->state |= NOCURSEXPAND;
.ft R
.fi
.sp
When an arrow key is then depressed, it will have the value:
.sp
.DS
.TS
center, tab(~);
lp10 lp10.
up arrow~0xE0
down arrow~0xE1
right arrow~0xE2
left arrow~0xE3
home key~0xE4
.TE
.DE
.PP
If a program wants to have its own interpretation of the numerical
keypad keys,
it is necessary to set a bit in the process state variable:
.sp
.ft CM
.ce
P->state |= NOPADEXPAND;
.ft R
.sp
When a numerical keypad key is then depressed, it will have the value:
.sp
.DS
.TS
center, tab(~);
lp10 lp10.
Enter~0xC0
\\=~0xC1
*~0xC2
/~0xC3
+~0xC4
7~0xC5
8~0xC6
9~0xC7
-~0xC8
4~0xC9
5~0xCA
6~0xCB
,~0xCC
1~0xCD
2~0xCE
3~0xCF
0~0xD0
\\\.~0xD1
.TE
.DE
.PP
If a program wants to remap the entire keyboard, it must
set a bit in the state variable:
.sp
.ft CM
.ce
P->state |= NOTRANSLATE;
.ft R
.sp
The application will then receive from the keyboard the raw keycodes 
as listed in the \fI630 MTG Terminal User's Guide\fR. 
Also, the keyboard LEDs will no longer be automatically updated.
At this point, calling the
.I reqkbdID
function will ask the keyboard for its identity (ID).
The keyboard will send back its ID and all keys currently depressed,
followed again by the ID. Refer to the \f2630 MTG
Software Development Guide\f1 for more information.

.SH SEE ALSO
kbdchar(3R), state(3R), pfkey(3R), resources(3R), setled(3L).
.br
\fI630 MTG Terminal User's Guide\fR.
.br
\f2630 MTG Software Development Guide\f1.
.SH WARNING
If the process has not requested the keyboard (see \fIresources(3r)\fR),
all per process keyboard states will be ignored, and the key's
ASCII/hexadecimal code(s) as specified in the
\fI630 MTG Terminal User's Guide\fR will be
sent to the host (if the process is connected) or ignored (if the process
runs locally).
.PP
The exception is the Scroll Lock key which does not require the application
to request the whole keyboard. However in order to process that key, the
application has to set the SCRLOCKREQD bit in \fIP->state\fR.
