.ds ZZ DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH LABELON 3R "630 MTG"
.XE "labelon()"
.XE "labeloff()"
.XE "labelicon()"
.XE "labeltext()"
.SH NAME
labelon, labeloff, labelicon, labeltext \- window labeling
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmd.h>
.br
.B #include <label.h>
.sp
.B void labelon ( )
.sp
.B void labeloff ( )
.sp
.B void labelicon (bp, pos)
.br
.B Bitmap \(**bp;
.br
.B int pos;
.sp
.B labeltext (s, n, f)
.br
.B char \(**s;
.br
.B int n;
.br
.B int f;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I labelon
function puts a label at the top of the window.
The label area is
.B LABEL_HEIGHT
pixels high and spans the full interior width of the window.
The label area is automatically updated to indicate the window's current host
and if that host is multiplexed.
It also indicates if scroll lock or caps lock is active for that window
and if the application running in the window has requested the printer.
.B Drect
is changed to the new smaller size of the interior of the window.
.PP
The
.I labeloff
function removes the label from the window and changes
.B Drect
to the new larger size.
.PP
The
.I labelicon
function draws the given bitmap into the label.
The bitmap is clipped to 16 pixels high and 
to the right edge of the label area.
Its leftmost edge is aligned to position \f2pos\f1.
Positions are 16 pixels
apart, starting with position 1 (L_HOST_POSITION) at the left
edge of the label area. The first 5 positions (1 to 5) are used
by the terminal for the following default information:
.RS 5
.TP 25
L_HOST_POSITION
current host connection
.TP 25
L_MUX_POSITION
current host environment
.TP 25
L_PRINT_POSITON
printer request status
.TP 25
L_SCROLL_POSITION
scroll lock key status
.TP 25
L_CAP_POSITION
caps lock key status
.PP
.RE
.bp
It is not recommended for an application to override those
fields with its own bitmaps. The first
position index that an application should use is
.B L_USER_POSITION
which guarantees non-interference with the terminal.
.PP
Clipped portions of a label bitmap are not remembered by the
terminal if the window is made larger.
.PP
The function 
.I labeltext 
displays the string \fIs\fR of \fIn\fR characters in the
label area of the window based on the flag \fIf\fR. The possible values for
f are:
.RS 5
.TP 19
L_LEFT
left justify the string from the L_USER_POSITION index position
.TP 19
L_RIGHT
right justify the string in the label area
.TP 19
L_CENTER
center the string in the full length label area
.PP
.RE
The font used to display the string is the terminal's \fBmedium\fR font.
The display mode is F_XOR; therefore, 
.I labeltext
will superimpose the new string over any existing label strings. 
If there is not enough room in the label area for all characters to fit,
the string will be clipped off.
.PP
When the window is reshaped, the terminal only redraws the label area
with the default information. Any user supplied icons and strings must
be redrawn by the application.
.PP
Any application that makes use of both \fIlabelicon\fR and \fIlabeltext\fR
should make sure that they do not write to the same positions
of the label area.
