.ds ZZ DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH NEWRECT 3R "630 MTG"
.XE "newrect()"
.SH NAME
newrect \- get swept or default rectangle
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmd.h>
.sp
.B Rectangle newrect (btn, rect)
.br
.B int btn;
.br
.B Rectangle rect;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I newrect
function
prompts the user with a sweep cursor and an outline of the
specified Rectangle \f2rect\f1, which then moves with the mouse.
The function then busy waits for a
Rectangle to be swept out with the specified 
.I btn
button,
or for the outline to be chosen by a click of 
.I btn.
The function then returns the screen coordinates of the created Rectangle.
If any button other than 
.I btn
is depressed at any stage of the operation, 
.I newrect
returns a null size Rectangle (i.e., the lower right corner is equal
to the upper left origin). If \f2rect\f1 is a null size
Rectangle, no outline will be presented; only a sweep cursor
will appear.

.SH EXAMPLE
The following routine will permit the user to sweep out a Rectangle.
As long as the Rectangle swept out does not have any points in common with
.IR Drect ,
the user will be prompted to sweep out another Rectangle.
Once the swept out Rectangle has points within
.IR Drect ,
the Rectangle will be clipped to \fIDrect\fR and returned.
.PP
.RS 3
.ft CM
.nf
#include <dmd.h>

Rectangle
sweep_rect( )
{
       Rectangle r;

       do
               r = newrect(2, Drect);
       while (!rectclip(&r, Drect));
       return r;
}
.fi
.ft R
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
box(3R), rectclip(3R).

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
A mouse click is detected by the amount of mouse movement, not by the
time between a button depression and release. The function \fInewrect\fR
will see as a click any sweeping action whose result is a Rectangle less than 20 by 20
pixels. 
