.ds ZZ DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH SETUPVAL 3R "630 MTG"
.XE "setupval()"
.SH NAME
setupval \- return a setup option
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3
#include <setup.h>
.sp
int setupval (obj, opt)
.br
.B int obj, opt;\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I setupval 
function
returns the value of a setup option.
The first argument,
.IR obj ,
is an object that has setup values.
Possible objects are the terminal
.RI ( S_PREF ),
the printer
.RI ( S_PRINT ),
and the host
.RI ( whathost() ).
The second argument,
.IR opt ,
is a particular option for that object.
The return value is an integer which describes that setting for
that option. This is summarized in the table below.
.sp
.TS
center tab (~);
lp8 lp8 lp8 lp8.
Object~Option~Returned~Meaning

S_PREF~S_PREF_CTRL~S_PREF_CTRL_VIS~visible
(user's~(control character~S_PREF_CTRL_INVIS~invisible
preferences)~display)~S_PREF_CTRL_SPACE~a space

~S_PREF_KCLK~S_PREF_KCLK_OFF~off
~(keyboard click)~S_PREF_KCLK_ON~on

~S_PREF_KVOL~S_PREF_KVOL_0~off
~(keyboard volume)~S_PREF_KVOL_1~1
~~S_PREF_KVOL_2~2
~~S_PREF_KVOL_3~3
~~S_PREF_KVOL_4~4
~~S_PREF_KVOL_5~5
~~S_PREF_KVOL_6~6
~~S_PREF_KVOL_7~full

~S_PREF_CURS~S_PREF_CURS_NOBLK~no blinking
~(cursor mode)~S_PREF_CURS_BLK~blinking

~S_PREF_KRPT~S_PREF_KRPT_15~15 per second
~(keyboard~S_PREF_KRPT_20~20 per second
~repeat rate)~S_PREF_KRPT_30~30 per second
~~S_PREF_KRPT_60~60 per second

~S_PREF_WBUF~S_PREF_WBUF_OFF~off
~(windowproc buffer)~S_PREF_WBUF_ON~on

~S_PREF_WTYP~S_PREF_WTYP_BASIC~basic
~(windowproc type)~S_PREF_WTYP_EHN~enhanced

S_PRINT~S_PRINT_TAB~S_PRINT_TAB_NO~no
(printer)~(tab expansion)~S_PRINT_TAB_YES~yes

~S_PRINT_ESC~S_PRINT_ESC_NO~no
~(filter escapes)~S_PRINT_ESC_YES~yes

whathost()~S_HOST_ENC~S_HOST_ENC_OFF~off
(process's host)~(encoding)~S_HOST_ENC_ON~on

~S_HOST_RTN~S_HOST_RTN_CR~carriage return
~(sent return~S_HOST_RTN_LF~line feed
~key definition)~S_HOST_RTN_CRLF~carriage return
~~~and line feed

~S_HOST_NL~S_HOST_NL_LF~line feed
~(newline~S_HOST_NL_CRLF~carriage return
~definition)~~and line feed

~S_HOST_FONT~S_HOST_FONT_SMALL~smallfont
~(font)~S_HOST_FONT_MEDIUM~mediumfont
~~S_HOST_FONT_LARGE~largefont

~S_HOST_COL~multiplexed columns~number
~S_HOST_ROW~multiplexed rows~number
~S_HOST_NCOL~nonmultiplexed columns~number
~S_HOST_NROW~nonmultiplexed rows~number

~S_HOST_FIXED~S_HOST_FIXED_NO~no
~(fixed size window)~S_HOST_FIXED_YES~yes
.TE
.PP
If the object is invalid,
.I setupval
returns -1.
If the option for a given object is invalid,
the return value is undefined.


.SH EXAMPLE
The following example prints out the setting of some options.
.PP
.RS 3
.nf
.ft CM
.S -2
#include <setup.h>

printval()
{
   int i;

   lprintf("key click is ");
   switch(setupval(S_PREF, S_PREF_KCLK))
   {
      case S_PREF_KCLK_OFF: lprintf("off\\n"); break;
      case S_PREF_KCLK_ON:  lprintf("on\\n"); break;
   }
   i = setupval(whathost(), 
                ismpx()? S_HOST_ROW: S_HOST_NROW);
   if(i == -1)
      lprintf("I am local\\n");
   else
      lprintf("default rows = %d\\n", i);
}
.fi
.ft R
.S +2
.RE
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
ismpx(3R), whathost(3R).
