.ds ZZ DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH STATE 3R "630 MTG"
.XE "P->state"
.XE "MOVED"
.XE "RESHAPED"
.XE "SCR_LOCK"
.SH NAME
state: P->state, MOVED, RESHAPED, NO_RESHAPE \- per process windowing states
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmd.h>
.sp
.B long P->state;
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I P->state
is the state variable for an application running in the 630
MTG.
.PP
The fields in the state variable relevant to windowing operations
are:
.IP ""
\s-1MOVED\s+1
.IP ""
\s-1RESHAPED\s+1
.IP ""
\s-1NO_RESHAPE\s+1
.PP
These bits are set or checked by the terminal during a windowing operation.
.PP
If an application program wants to do some special processing after 
being moved or reshaped,
it must periodically check the proper \f2state\f1 bits. When
the pertinent event occurs, the application program should perform
its special processing and then
reset the proper bits in the state variable as follows:
.PP
For a process to test whether its window has been
moved ,
it must check:
.PP
.ft CM
( P->state&\s-1MOVED\s+1 )
.ft R
.PP
To reset the \s-1MOVED\s+1 condition it is necessary to execute:
.PP
.ft CM
P->state &= ~(\s-1MOVED|RESHAPED\s+1);
.ft R
.PP
For a process to test whether its window has been
reshaped,
it must check:
.PP
.ft CM
( P->state&\s-1RESHAPED\s+1 && !(P->state&\s-1MOVED\s+1) )
.ft R
.PP
To reset the \s-1RESHAPED\s+1 condition it is necessary to execute:
.PP
.ft CM
P->state &= ~\s-1RESHAPED\s+1;
.ft R
.PP
The reason for the interaction of the \s-1MOVED\s+1 and \s-1RESHAPED\s+1 bits
is purely historical.
.PP
The \s-1NO_RESHAPE\s+1 bit should be set if the application program does 
not want
to be reshaped by the user through the global mouse operation. A message box 
with the message "Fixed size window: Cannot be reshaped" will be
displayed if the user attempts to reshape the window.
Clearing the bit makes the window reshapable again.
.SH SEE ALSO
keyboard(3r).

