.ds ZZ DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH STRING 3R "630 MTG"
.XE "string()"
.XE "smallfont"
.XE "mediumfont"
.XE "largefont"
.XE "FONTWIDTH()"
.XE FONTHEIGHT()"
.SH NAME  
string, FONTWIDTH, FONTHEIGHT, smallfont, mediumfont, largefont \- draw string in bitmap
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3
#include <dmd.h>
.br
#include <font.h>
.sp
Point string (ft, s, b, p, f)
.br
Font \(**ft; 
.br 
char \(**s;
.br 
Bitmap \(**b;
.br 
Point p;
.br 
Code f;
.sp
int FONTWIDTH (fnt)
.br
int FONTHEIGHT (fnt)
.sp
Font fnt;
.sp
Font smallfont;
.br
Font mediumfont;
.br
Font largefont;
\f1
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I string
function
draws the null-terminated string
.I s
using characters from Font
.I \(**ft
in Bitmap
.I \(**b
at Point
.I p
with function Code
.IR f .
The returned Point value is the location of the first character position
following the string
.IR s .
The returned Point can be passed to successive calls to
.I string
to concatenate strings.
.PP
The drawing of the characters is done such that the bounding rectangle
of the maximum height character in the font would have its origin at
.IR p .
Therefore, a character drawn on the screen at the point
.I Drect.origin
will occupy the upper-leftmost character position of the application's
window.
.PP
The
.I string
function
draws characters as they are in the font.
No special action is taken for control characters such as tabs and newlines.
.PP
The globals
.IR smallfont ,
.IR mediumfont ,
and
.IR largefont
are the names of, not pointers to, the three resident fonts in the 630
MTG.
.P
The
.I FONTWIDTH
macro returns the width of the space character in the given
font. This is only useful if all
the characters in the font have the same width.
The
.I FONTHEIGHT
macro returns the height of the given font.
.bp
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example demonstrates the use of
.I string.
The simple subroutine prints "hello world" using the resident font
called 
.I largefont .
.PP
.RS 3
.nf
.ft CM
#include <dmd.h>
#include <font.h>

Point add();
Point string();

hello_world()
{
	Font *f;
	Point p;

	f = &largefont;
	p = add (Drect.origin, Pt(4,4));
	string (f, "hello world", &display, p, F_XOR);
}
\fR
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
loadfont(1), jstring(3R), structures(3R).
