.ds ZZ DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH WINDOW 3L "630 MTG"
.XE "reshape()"
.XE "move()"
.XE "top()"
.XE "bottom()"
.XE "current()"
.XE "delete()"
.SH NAME
window: reshape, move, top, bottom, current, delete \- window operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmd.h>
.sp
.B int reshape (r)
.sp
.B int move (p)
.sp
.B void top ( )
.sp
.B void bottom ( )
.sp
.B void current ( )
.sp
.B void delete ( )
.sp
.B Rectangle r;
.br
.B Point p;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I reshape
function
changes the size and/or position of the window
in which the process is running.
This will change the value of
.I Drect
and
.IR display .
The
.I reshape
function will fail and do nothing if the given rectangle lies
outside of
the screen
or is smaller than 32x32.
It may also fail because of insufficient memory.
On failure, \f2reshape\f1 will reshape the window back to its
original size or to 32x32.
When successful,
.I P->state
is updated,
and 1 is returned.
Otherwise, 0 is returned.
.P
The
.I move
function
moves the process's window so that
.I display.origin
lies at the given point.
It will fail and do nothing if
.I p
lies outside of
the screen
or there isn't enough memory.
When successful,
.I P->state
is updated, and 1 is returned.
Otherwise, 0 is returned.
.PP
The
.I top
function
brings the window to the top so that it is not obscured
by any other window.
As its opposite, the
.I bottom
function
puts the window on the bottom so that every window it overlapped
will now obscure it.
.PP
The
.I current
function
makes the process's window current. This directs the keyboard
and mouse input to the process.
.PP
The
.I delete
function
deletes the process and its window. This is the same as exit,
only the window is also removed.
The
.I delete
function will fail if the window is the last one connected to a host.
.SH SEE ALSO
exit(3R), globals(3R), state(3R).
