.\"       Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T   
.\"       All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"       THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"       The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"       actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"
.TH STARLANDG 4N "630 Network Development Package" "\&"
.SH NAME
/dev/starlandg \- StarLAN network driver, connectionless mode.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmdtiuser.h>
.PP
.B fd = t_open ("/dev/starlandg", oflag, info);
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I /dev/starlandg
is the network driver that implements the AT&T StarLAN Network
connectionless mode
protocol. This protocol is based on the Open Systems Interconnect
(OSI) model and currently supports the International Standards
Organization (ISO) protocol suite up through the OSI transport
layer (layer 4). The transport for
.I /dev/starlandg
is based on ISO 8062 which provides a simple datagram service.
.PP
The 630 MTG's Transport Layer Interface (TLI) [see \fIintro\fR(3N)]
is supported on top of the OSI transport to allow access to the
transport capabilities from 630 networking applications.
.PP
The
.I /dev/starlandg
network driver is available from a 630 MTG expansion card, the AT&T
StarLAN 10 Terminal Network Access Unit (NAU). The Terminal NAU is
installed into the memory expansion slot of the 630 terminal, and
allows the terminal to access a 10 Mb/s version of the AT&T StarLAN
network through unshielded twisted-pair wire.
.PP
Although the call formats and arguments of the TLI functions are
the same for all TLI network devices, there are some parameters
that are dependent of the specific driver and its implementation.
The following are the parameters that pertain to 
.I /dev/starlandg
as implemented in the StarLAN 10 Terminal NAU.

.SS Transport Characteristics
The transport characteristics of \fI/dev/starlandg\fR can be found
by supplying a pointer to a \fIt_info\fR structure as argument
to \fIt_open\fR(3N) or \fIt_getinfo\fR(3N). 
The following table has a summary of those characteristics.
Refer to the manual page of \fIt_getinfo\fR
for a description of the meaning of the values.
.PP
.TS
center box ;
cB s
cB | cB
l | n .
Transport Characteristics
_
Member	Value
=
addr	55
options	56
tsdu	1028
etsdu	0	
connect	0
discon	0
servtype	3 (T_CLTS)
.TE

.SS Transport Protocol Address
A transport endpoint is known locally in the networking application
by its transport endpoint descriptor, \fIfd\fR. However, for 
the purpose of communicating with other nodes on the network, a transport
endpoint is known by its protocol address. For example, in order
to send a datagram to another transport endpoint, the TLI function
\fIt_sndudata\fR(3N) requires the protocol address of the destination.
The representation of a transport
endpoint by a protocol address starts with the binding process
[see \fIt_bind\fR(3N)].
.PP
A protocol address can be a string of ASCII characters; in this case,
the protocol address is said to be specified by a Logical Name.
A protocol address can also be specified by an array of octets
which represents the complete network address of the transport
endpoint and consists of a Transport Selector (T-Selector) and
a Network Service Access Point (NSAP) address; in this case,
the protocol address is said to be specified by a Transport Address.
.PP
The use of the Transport Address occurs during the binding process
if the given Logical Name is not unique in the
network, or no Logical Name is specified (the \fIreq\fR argument of
\fIt_bind\fR is \s-1NULL\s+1).
.PP
The protocol address is represented by the \fInetbuf\fR structure
[see \fIintro\fR(3N)] with the 
\fIlen\fR field specifying the number of bytes in the address and
the \fIbuf\fR field
pointing to the buffer containing the address.  The form of the address buffer
depends on the type of the protocol address.
.PP
If the protocol address is a Logical Name,
the size of the address buffer must be at least 1 and at most 32,
and the first element of the address buffer (\fIbuf\fR[0]) must 
\fBnot\fR contain the value 0x00.
.PP
If the protocol address is a Transport Address,
the address buffer is an array of \fIn\fR octets, where
\fIn > 0\fR and \fIn <= 55\fR. The last number is the same
as the value of the \fIaddr\fR field of a \fIt_info\fR structure (see the
\s-1\fBTransport Characteristics\s+1\fR table above).
The first element of this array, \fIbuf\fR[0], must
contain the value 0x00. \fIbuf\fR[1] contains the value, \fIi\fR, which indicates
the T-Selector length. The T-Selector is given by \fIbuf\fR[2] through
\fIbuf\fR[\fIi\fR+1]. \fIbuf\fR[\fIi\fR+2] contains the value, \fIj\fR, which
indicates the NSAP length.
The NSAP is given by \fIbuf\fR[\fIi\fR+3] through \fIbuf\fR[\fIi\fR+\fIj\fR+2].
.PP
.TS
center box ;
cB s
c s
l | l .
Transport Address Format
(0 <= i <= 32; 0 <= j <= 20)
_
0	0x00
1	T-Selector length = i
2 ... i+1	T-Selector
i+2	NSAP length = j
i+3 ... i+j+2	NSAP
.TE
.PP
Since a protocol address may be a Logical Name or a
Transport Address depending on the circumstance,
the following routine will generate
a T-Selector as a NULL terminated string independent of the form.
.PP
.RS 3
.nf
.ft CW
t_selector(addr, buf)
struct netbuf addr;
char *buf;	/* Points to char array able to hold 33 chars */
{
	char *p;
	int len;

	if (*addr.buf == '\\0') {	/* Transport Address */
		p = addr.buf+2;
		len = *(addr.buf+1);
	}
	else {				/* Logical Name */
		p = addr.buf;
		len = addr.len;
	}
	memcpy(buf, p, len);
	*(buf + len) = '\\0';
}
.ft R
.fi
.RE

.SS Transport Protocol Options
Transport protocol options can be retrieved, verified, or
negotiated through the TLI function call, \fIt_optmgmt\fR(4N).
.PP
For the
.I /dev/starlandg
network driver, \fIt_optmgmt\fR must only be called when the transport
endpoint is in the T_IDLE state.
.PP
The \fIt_optmgmt\fR structure [see \fIt_optmgmt\fR(4N)] contains
two fields: the \fIopt\fR field identifies the protocol options and 
the \fIflags\fR field is used
to specify the action to take with those options (T_NEGOTIATE,
T_CHECK or T_DEFAULT).
.PP
The protocol options are represented by a \fInetbuf\fR structure
[see \fIintro\fR(3N)] where \fIopt.buf\fR is a pointer to a structure of the form:
.PP
.RS 3
.nf
.ft CW
#include <dmdslanusr.h>

struct sl_t_opts {
	unsigned long options;
	long gos_option;
	long tsdu_option;
	unsigned char group_option[16];
	unsigned long bcast_option;
	struct TKOPTIONS tk_opts;
	struct TKPARAMS tk_params;	/* Added for 630 MTG */
	};
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.PP
The \fIsl_t_opts\fR structure is defined in \fBdmdslanusr.h\fR.
.PP
The following bit positions can be set in the \fIoptions\fR field
of the \fIsl_t_opts\fR structure:
.TP 15
\s-1U_GROUP_OPTION\s+1
When used in conjunction with T_NEGOTIATE, allows the user to
bind on the group name specified in \fIgroup_option\fR.
The group name must be padded out to 16 characters with spaces.
The name specified in \fIgroup_option\fR cannot be used by
anyone else on the network as a unique name but can be added
by anyone as a group name. When a group name is used with connectionless mode transport
endpoints, datagrams sent to this group name will be received by
all datagram endpoints bound on the group name.
.TP
\s-1U_BCAST_OPTION\s+1
When used in conjunction with T_NEGOTIATE, allows the datagram user
to enable the reception of broadcast datagrams. In addition to
the U_BCAST_OPTION flag, the field \fIbcast_option\fR must be set to
the value of U_ON_BCAST. By default, the datagram user will not
receive broadcast datagrams. The U_GROUP_OPTION and U_BCAST_OPTION
must not be used together.
.TP
\s-1U_TK_OPTION\s+1
Manages the transport options as specified by the \fITKOPTIONS\fR
structure defined in \fBdmdslanusr.h\fR.
.TP
\s-1U_TK_PARAMS\s+1
Manages additional transport options as specified by
the \fITKPARAMS\fR structure defined in \fBdmdslanusr.h\fR.
.PP
When managing transport options via the U_TK_OPTION or U_TK_PARAMS,
the default values should first be retrieved using the T_DEFAULT flag.
The T_NEGOTIATE flag can then be used to modify the default values.

.SH FILES
dmdtiuser.h
.br
dmdslanusr.h

.SH SEE ALSO
intro(3N), t_bind(3N), t_open(3N), t_optmgmt(3N).
.br
starlan(4N).
.br
\fIAT&T StarLAN 10 Network, Terminal NAU User's Guide\fR.
.br
\fIAT&T StarLAN Network Software Technical Reference Manual\fR.
.br
\fIAT&T StarLAN Network Application Programmer's Reference Manual\fR.
.br
\fIUNIX System V Network Programmer's Guide\fR.
