.\"       Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T   
.\"       All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"       THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"       The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"       actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"
.TH FLOWCONTROL 3N "630 Network Development Package" "\&"
.SH NAME
flowcontrol \- disable and enable network xt flow control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ft B
void flowcontrol (n)
.br
int n;
.ft R
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I flowcontrol
function is used with standard 630's I/O functions (such as
\fIsendchar\fR, \fIsendnchars\fR, \fIrcvchar\fR and \fIrcvnchars\fR)
to increase the data transfer 
throughput for applications which transfer large quantities of
data in the
.I xt/layers
environment running over a high speed network.
.PP
When running over RS-232C, the xt protocol used by the layers
environment provides error detection and correction by breaking data
into packets with CRC checksums, etc.. This error
correcting protocol is redundant in a networking environment such as
StarLAN since the underlying network already provides error
correction. Furthermore, this redundant error correcting protocol
severely hurts throughput when running over a high speed network.
UNIX host xt drivers which support the
.I "network xt"
protocol solve this problem by using a simplified
protocol when running in a networking environment.
.PP
This network xt protocol greatly improves throughput of xt/layers over
high speed networks. The default network xt operating mode, however,
does not yield the highest possible performance. This is because the
network xt protocol will, by default, limit the number of characters
sent to a 630 window at one time. This simple flow control is
necessary for 630 application programs such as terminal emulators
which may not always read incoming data quickly and regularly. The
630 default terminal emulator windowproc needs flow control because
a user can press scroll lock on the keyboard while the window is
receiving data. When scroll lock is pressed, windowproc must wait
until scroll lock is removed before it can process additional
characters which have been sent from the host.
The protocol must therefore
guarantee that a window running windowproc never receives more
characters than can be stored in internal 630 firmware buffers.
Otherwise, when scroll lock is pressed, internal buffers in the
terminal will back up and input to all windows will be frozen.
.PP
On the other hand, an application such as the 630 firmware load
process does not need this flow control. The load process is the
firmware resident application which turns the mouse cursor into a
coffee cup, accepts characters being sent from the host by the
.I dmdld
program, transfers the characters into 630 memory, and paints the
screen to show progress of the download. The load process always
reads incoming data quickly, regularly and without blocking, so
flow control is therefore not needed. Furthermore,
eliminating this flow control about doubles the speed of downloads.
.PP
The network xt protocol will always initially have flow control
enabled when an application program starts executing. Applications
can turn off flow control for their window by calling the
.I flowcontrol
function with an argument of 0. Flow control can be re-enabled
by a call to
.I flowcontrol
with an argument of 1. It is not necessary
for applications to re-enable flow control before exiting because
630 firmware does that automatically.
.P
Note that the
.I flowcontrol
function will only have an effect when
running xt/layers in a networking environment. When running xt/layers over
RS-232C, or when running in a non-layers environment, the call to
.I flowcontrol
is harmless but ignored. The call to
.I flowcontrol
is also
harmless and ignored if executed by an application downloaded into a
terminal with old 630 firmware that did not support networking.
.SH SEE ALSO
dmdld(1) in the \fI630 MTG Software Reference Manual\fR
.br
layers(1) in the \fIUNIX System V User's Reference Manual\fR
.br
sendchar (3R) in the \fI630 MTG Software Reference Manual\fR
.br
rcvchar (3R) in the \fI630 MTG Software Reference Manual\fR
.br
xtproto(5) in the \fIUNIX System V System Administrator's Reference Manual\fR
