.\"       Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T   
.\"       All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"       THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"       The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"       actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"
.TH INTRO 3N "630 Network Development Package" "\&"
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to the 630 MTG networking capability

.SH DESCRIPTION
This section describes the functions that make up the 630 MTG's
\fBlibnsl_s\fR library which supports the Transport Level Interface (TLI)
to networking and also contains other miscellaneous functions related to
networking in the 630 environment.
.PP
With the advent of networking I/O expansion boards for the 630 MTG
(such as the StarLAN 10 Terminal NAU), 630 applications have another
way to reach out to the outside world, besides through the standard
630 I/O functions (\fIsendchar\fR, \fIrcvchar\fR, etc.) supplied with the 630
Software Development Package. This method is through networking,
with the 630 application acting as a network client or server, and the
correspondent assuming the other role. The correspondent session resides
in a node on the network, and this node can be a host computer, a personal computer,
a workstation, another 630 terminal or even the same 630 terminal.
.PP
630 networking applications are developed by using the
development tools of the
630 Software Development Package. To access the TLI networking features,
however, these applications need to be compiled with the 
\fB#include\fR files and the additional \fBlibnsl_s\fR library supported
by the 630 Network Development Package. 
This library is not automatically
loaded by the 630 MTG C compiler, \fIdmdcc\fR; use of the \fB-l\fR 
(and \fB-L\fR if needed) option to \fIdmdcc\fR is required [see \fIdmdcc\fR(1)
and \fImc68ld\fR(1)]. For example, if the \fBlibnsl_s\fR library has been
installed in the standard \fIdmdcc\fR library search path (i.e. $DMD/lib),
a networking application, say \fIprog.c\fR, can be compiled as follows:
.PP
.RS 3
.nf
.ft CW
dmdcc prog.c -lnsl_s
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.PP
If the \fBlibnsl_s\fR library is not installed in $DMD/lib, but in some
other directory, say in $MYLIB, the networking application
\fIprog.c\fR has to be compiled as follows:
.PP
.RS 3
.nf
.ft CW
dmdcc prog.c -L $MYLIB -lnsl_s
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.PP
If the \fB#include\fR files are not installed in the standard search
path of \fIdmdcc\fR (i.e. $DMD/include), but in some other directory,
say in $MYINC, the above program \fIprog.c\fR
has to be compiled as follows:
.PP
.RS 3
.nf
.ft CW
dmdcc -I $MYINC prog.c -L $MYLIB -lnsl_s
.ft R
.fi
.RE
.PP
After being developed in a host computer, 
630 networking applications are
downloaded into the 630 terminal
for execution
through the use of the 630 MTG downloader, \fIdmdld\fR(1).
When in the terminal, the
630 networking applications retain all the capabilities of standard
630 applications (such as mouse, keyboard interfaces), even the
standard (\fIxt\fR or non-\fIxt\fR)
I/O connection used for the download. The difference is that
630 networking applications can communicate through networking by
making calls to the functions in the \fBlibnsl_s\fR library.

.SH TRANSPORT LAYER INTERFACE
The Transport Layer Interface (TLI)
supported by the 630 Network Development Package (NDP) is an
adaptation of the UNIX\*(Tm System V's TLI feature. Working knowledge
of this transport interface can be found in the \fIUNIX System V
Network Programmer's Guide\fR.
.PP
The 630 NDP's \fBlibnsl_s\fR supports the \fInetbuf\fR structure.
This structure is used to send and receive data and information
in various TLI functions.
It contains the following members:
.RS 6
.PP
unsigned int maxlen;
.br
unsigned int len;
.br
char	\(**buf;
.RE
.PP
\f2buf\f1 points to a user input and/or output buffer.
.I len
generally specifies the number of bytes contained in the buffer.
If the structure is used for both input and output, the function
will replace the user value of \f2len\f1 on return. 
.PP
.I maxlen
generally has significance only when \f2buf\f1 is used to receive output
from the TLI function.
In this case, it specifies the physical size of the buffer, the maximum
value of \f2len\f1 that can be set by the function.
If
.I maxlen
is not large enough to hold the returned information, an \s-1TBUFOVFLW\s0 error
will generally result.
However, certain functions may return part of the data and not generate an error.
.PP
While most of
the 630's TLI functions offer basically the same functionality
as of the ones in the UNIX environment, there is a noticeable
difference.
The concept of a file subsystem is not defined in the 630 environment,
therefore, \fIstdin\fR, \fIstdout\fR and \fIstderr\fR are not 
available. This is the reason that the function \fIt_error\fR
which writes to \fIstderr\fR is not defined in the 630 NDP.

.SH NETWORK DRIVERS
Section \fB4N\fR has the description of various network drivers
supported in the 630 environment. 630 MTG network drivers represent
networking protocols, and are implemented using a modified
version of the UNIX System V Release 3 STREAMS mechanism.
The 630 Transport Layer Interface provides transparent access to
the underlying STREAMS mechanism. In addition to indirect access
to STREAMS via TLI calls, the 630 NDP provides direct access to
STREAMS through the \fIfcntl\fR(3N) and \fIpoll\fR(3N) function
calls.
.PP
Information about the STREAMS concept can be found in
the \fIUNIX System V STREAMS Primer\fR.
.PP
The manual pages in section \fB3N\fR describe the functions
in generic terms. Specific information pertaining to individual
network drivers can be found in the manual page of that driver
in section \fB4N\fR.

.SH NETWORK XT
For 630 applications that communicate with a host through
the standard 630 I/O functions (\fIsendchar\fR, \fIrcvchar\fR, etc.),
the I/O performance can be improved if the connection is
over a networking medium instead of regular serial ports.
.PP
The \fIxt/layers\fR environment is supported over network connections
when the 630 MTG is connected to a host computer which
is either running UNIX System V Release 4 or later, or running
UNIX System V Release 3.2 with the STREAMS XT Windowing Utilities
package installed. 
.PP
The 630 NDP's \fBlibnsl_s\fR supports the \fIflowcontrol\fR(3N) function. This
function can be used to increase data transfer throughput for applications
which transfer large quantities of data in the \fIxt/layers\fR environment
running over a network connection.

.SH SEE ALSO
dmdcc(1), dmdld(1), mc68ld(1) in the \fI630 MTG Software Reference Manual\fR
.br
\fIUNIX System V Network Programmer's Guide\fR
.br
\fIUNIX System V STREAMS Primer\fR
.br
layers(1) in the \fIUNIX System V System User's Reference Manual\fR

.SH WARNINGS
The \fBlibnsl_s\fR library is compiled with the Programming Environment
Identification (PEID) number set to 3. The PEID scheme [see \fIdmdcc\fR(1)
and \fIdmdld\fR(1)] prevents the download of 630 applications that make
use of libraries not supported by older versions of 630 firmware. Specifically,
the \fBlibnsl_s\fR library is supported by 630 MTG firmwares version 8;8;7 ROMS
or later; 630 terminals with older firmware versions (e.g. 8;8;6 ROMS) have
to be upgraded in order to run 630 networking applications. 
.P
630 applications that use the \fBlibnsl_s\fR library can be downloaded from
an AT&T 3B2 host computer (or other computers with the same byte ordering
method) using any version of the 630 MTG downloader, \fIdmdld\fR. In order
to download the same applications from an AT&T 6386 WSG (or other computers
with the same byte ordering method), version 2.0 or later of the 630 MTG downloader
is needed; otherwise the terminal will reject the download due to
an incorrect PEID checking in the older versions of the downloader.
.P
Version 2.0 of \fIdmdld\fR is released with this 630 Network Development Package.
If this version of the downloader (use the \fI-V\fR option) is not available
on your machine, and the diagnostic output (use the \fI-d\fR option)
indicates that the download has been rejected due to an incorrect PEID checking,
the use of the \fI-f\fR flag is recommended to circumvent the problem
until an upgrade to \fIdmdld\fR is available on your machine.
