.\"       Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T   
.\"       All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"       THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"       The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"       actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"
'\"macro stdmacro
.TH T_FREE 3N "630 Network Development Package" "\&"
.SH NAME
t_free \- free a library structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmdtiuser.h>
.PP
.B int t_free(ptr, struct_type)
.br
.B char *ptr;
.br
.B int struct_type;
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I t_free
function frees memory previously allocated by
.IR t_alloc .
This function will free memory for the specified structure, and
will also free memory for buffers referenced by the structure.
.PP
.I ptr
points to one of the six structure types described for
.IR t_alloc ,
and
.I struct_type
identifies the type of that structure which can be one
of the following:
.TP 17
\s-1T_BIND\s+1
struct t_bind
.TP
\s-1T_CALL\s+1
struct t_call
.TP
\s-1T_OPTMGMT\s+1
struct t_optmgmt
.TP
\s-1T_DIS\s+1
struct t_discon
.TP
\s-1T_UNITDATA\s+1
struct t_unitdata
.TP
\s-1T_UDERROR\s+1
struct t_uderr
.TP
\s-1T_INFO\s+1
struct t_info
.PP
where each of these structures is used as an argument to one or
more transport functions.
.PP
.I t_free
will check the
.IR addr ,
.IR opt ,
and
.I udata
fields of the given structure (as appropriate), and free the
buffers pointed to by the
.I buf
field of the
.I netbuf
[see \f2intro\f1(3N)] structure.
If
.I buf
is \s-1NULL\s+1,
.I t_free
will not attempt to free memory.
After all buffers are freed,
.I t_free
will free the memory associated with the structure pointed to by
.IR ptr .
.PP
Undefined results will occur if
.I ptr
or any of the
.I buf
pointers points to a block of memory that was not previously
allocated by
.IR t_alloc .
.P
On failure, \f2t_errno\f1 may be set to the following:
.TP 15
\s-1[TSYSERR]\s+1
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(3N), t_alloc(3N).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I t_free
returns 0 on success and \-1 on failure and
\f2t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
