.\"       Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T   
.\"       All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"       THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"       The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"       actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"
.TH T_LOOK 3N "630 Network Development Package" "\&"
.SH NAME
t_look \- look at the current event on a transport endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmdtiuser.h>
.PP
.B int t_look(fd)
.br
.B int fd;
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function returns the current event
on the transport endpoint specified by
.IR fd .
This function enables a transport provider to notify a transport user of an
asynchronous event when the user is issuing functions in synchronous mode.
Certain events require immediate notification of the user and are indicated
by a specific error, \s-1TLOOK\s+1, on the current or next function to
be executed.
.P
This function also enables a transport user to poll a transport endpoint
periodically for asynchronous events.
.P
On failure, \f2t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 15
\s-1[TBADF]\s+1
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
\s-1[TSYSERR]\s+1
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH SEE ALSO
t_open(3N).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Upon success,
.I t_look
returns a value that indicates which of the allowable
events has occurred, or returns zero if no event exists.
One of the following events is returned:
.TP 19
\s-1T_LISTEN\s+1
connection indication received
.TP
\s-1T_CONNECT\s+1
connect confirmation received
.TP
\s-1T_DATA\s+1
normal data received		
.TP
\s-1T_EXDATA\s+1
expedited data received	
.TP
\s-1T_DISCONNECT\s+1
disconnect received
.TP
\s-1T_ERROR\s+1
fatal error indication	 
.TP
\s-1T_UDERR\s+1
datagram error indication	
.TP
\s-1T_ORDREL\s+1
orderly release indication
.PP
On failure, \-1 is returned and
.I t_errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
