.\"       Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T   
.\"       All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"       THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"       The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"       actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"
.TH T_OPTMGMT 3N "630 Network Development Package" "\&"
.SH NAME
t_optmgmt \- manage options for a transport endpoint
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmdtiuser.h>
.PP
.nf
.B int t_optmgmt(fd, req, ret)
.br
.B int fd;
.br
.B struct t_optmgmt *req;
.br
.B struct t_optmgmt *ret;
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I t_optmgmt
function enables a transport user to retrieve, verify, or
negotiate protocol options with the transport provider.
.I fd
identifies a bound transport endpoint.
.PP
The
.I req
and
.I ret
arguments point to a \f2t_optmgmt\f1 structure containing the following
members:
.PP
.RS
struct netbuf opt;
.br
long flags;
.RE
.PP
The
.I opt
field identifies protocol options and the
.I flags
field is used to specify the action to take with those options.
.PP
The options are represented by a
.I netbuf
[see \f2intro\f1(3N); also for \f2len\f1, \f2buf\f1 and \f2maxlen\f1]
structure in a manner similar to the address in
.IR t_bind .
.I req
is used to request a specific action of the provider and to
send options to the provider.
.I len
specifies the number of bytes in the options,
.I buf
points to the options buffer, and
.I maxlen
has no meaning for the
.I req
argument.
The transport provider may return options and flag values
to the user through
.IR ret .
For
.IR ret ,
.I maxlen
specifies the maximum size of the options buffer and
.I buf
points to the buffer where the options are to be placed.
On return,
.I len
specifies the number of bytes of options returned.
.I maxlen
has no meaning for the
.I req
argument, but must be set in the
.I ret
argument
to specify the maximum number of bytes the options buffer
can hold.
The actual structure and content of the options is imposed by the
transport provider.
.PP
The
.I flags
field of
.I req
can specify one of the following actions:
.TP 15
\s-1T_NEGOTIATE\s+1
This action enables the user to negotiate the values of the options
specified in
.I req
with the transport provider.
The provider will evaluate the requested options and negotiate the
values, returning the negotiated values through
.IR ret .
.TP
\s-1T_CHECK\s+1
This action enables the user to verify whether the options
specified in
.I req
are supported by the transport provider.
On return, the
.I flags
field of
.I ret
will have either
\s-1T_SUCCESS\s0
or
\s-1T_FAILURE\s0
set to indicate to the user whether the options are supported.
These flags are only meaningful for the
\s-1T_CHECK\s0
request.
.TP
\s-1T_DEFAULT\s+1
This action enables a user to retrieve the default options
supported by the transport provider into the
.I opt
field of
.IR ret .
In
.IR req ,
the
.I len
field of
.I opt
must be zero and the
.I buf
field may be \s-1NULL\s+1.
.PP
If issued as part of the connectionless-mode service,
.I t_optmgmt
may block due to flow control constraints.
The function will not complete until the transport provider
has processed all previously sent data units.
.P
On failure, \f2t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 20 
\s-1[TBADF]\s+1
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
\s-1[TOUTSTATE]\s+1
The function was issued in the wrong sequence.
.TP
\s-1[TACCES]\s+1
The user does not have permission to negotiate the specified options.
.TP
\s-1[TBADOPT]\s+1
The specified protocol options were in an incorrect format or
contained illegal information.
.TP
\s-1[TBADFLAG]\s+1
An invalid flag was specified.
.TP
\s-1[TBUFOVFLW]\s+1
The number of bytes allowed for an incoming argument is not
sufficient to store the value of that argument.
The information to be returned in
.I ret
will be discarded.
.TP
\s-1[TSYSERR]\s+1
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
intro(3N), t_getinfo(3N), t_open(3N).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I t_optmgmt
returns 0 on success and \-1 on failure and
\f2t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
