.\"       Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T   
.\"       All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"       THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"       The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"       actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"
.TH T_RCVUDATA 3N "630 Network Development Package" "\&"
.SH NAME
t_rcvudata \- receive a data unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmdtiuser.h>
.PP
.B int t_rcvudata(fd, unitdata, flags)
.br
.B int fd;
.br
.B struct t_unitdata *unitdata;
.br
.B int *flags;
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is used
in connectionless mode
to receive a data unit from another transport
user.
.I fd
identifies the local transport endpoint through which data will be
received,
.I unitdata
holds information associated with the received data unit, and
.I flags
is set on return to indicate that the complete data unit was not
received.
.I unitdata
points to a \f2t_unitdata\f1 structure containing the following members:
.PP
.RS
struct netbuf addr;
.br
struct netbuf opt;
.br
struct netbuf udata;
.RE
.PP
The
.I maxlen
[see \f2netbuf\f1 in \f2intro\f1(3N)] field of
.IR addr ,
.IR opt ,
and
.I udata
must be set before issuing this function to indicate the maximum
size of the buffer for each.
.PP
On return from this call,
.I addr
specifies the protocol address of the sending user,
.I opt
identifies protocol-specific options that were
associated with this data unit, and
.I udata
specifies the user data that was received.
.PP
By default,
.I t_rcvudata
operates in synchronous mode and will
wait for a data unit to arrive if none is currently available.
However, if
\s-1O_NDELAY\s0
is set (via
.I t_open
or
.IR fcntl ),
.I t_rcvudata
will execute in asynchronous mode and will fail
if no data units are available.
.PP
If the buffer defined in the
.I udata
field of
.I unitdata
is not large enough to hold the current data unit,
the buffer will be filled and
\s-1T_MORE\s0
will be set in
.I flags
on return to indicate that another
.I t_rcvudata
should be issued to retrieve the rest of the data unit.
Subsequent
.I t_rcvudata
call(s) will return zero for the length of the address and options
until the full data unit has been received.
.P
On failure, \f2t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 20
\s-1[TBADF]\s+1
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
\s-1[TNODATA]\s+1
\s-1O_NDELAY\s0
was set, but
no data units are currently available from the transport provider.
.TP
\s-1[TBUFOVFLW]\s+1
The number of bytes allocated for the incoming protocol address or
options is not sufficient to store the information.
The unit data information to be returned in
.I unitdata
will be discarded.
.TP
\s-1[TLOOK]\s+1
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint and requires
immediate attention.
.TP
\s-1[TNOTSUPPORT]\s+1
This function is not supported by the underlying transport
provider.
.TP
\s-1[TSYSERR]\s+1
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(3N), fcntl(3N), t_open(3N), t_rcvuderr(3N), t_sndudata(3N).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I t_rcvudata
returns 0 on successful completion and \-1 on failure
and \f2t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
