.\"       Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T   
.\"       All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"       THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"       The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"       actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"
.TH T_RCVREL 3N "630 Network Development Package" "\&"
.SH NAME
t_rcvrel \- acknowledge receipt of an orderly release indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmdtiuser.h>
.PP
.B int t_rcvrel (fd)
.br
.B int fd;
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is used to acknowledge receipt of
an orderly release indication.
.I fd
identifies the local transport endpoint where the connection exists.
After receipt of this indication, the user may not attempt to
receive more data because such an attempt will block forever.
However, the user may continue to send data over the connection if
.I t_sndrel
has not been issued by the user.
.PP
This function is an optional service of the transport provider,
and is only supported if the transport provider returned service
type
\s-1T_COTS_ORD\s0
on
.I t_open
or
.IR t_getinfo .
.P
On failure, \f2t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 20
\s-1[TBADF]\s+1
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
\s-1[TNOREL]\s+1
No orderly release indication currently exists on the specified
transport endpoint.
.TP
\s-1[TLOOK]\s+1
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint and requires
immediate attention.
.TP
\s-1[TNOTSUPPORT]\s+1
This function is not supported by the underlying transport
provider.
.TP
\s-1[TSYSERR]\s+1
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH SEE ALSO
t_open(3N), t_sndrel(3N).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I t_rcvrel
returns 0 on success and \-1 on failure
\f2t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
