.\"       Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T   
.\"       All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"       THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"       The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"       actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"
.TH T_RCVUDERR 3N "630 Network Development Package" "\&"
.SH NAME
t_rcvuderr \- receive a unit data error indication
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmdtiuser.h>
.PP
.B int t_rcvuderr(fd, uderr)
.br
.B int fd;
.br
.B struct t_uderr *uderr;
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is used in connectionless mode
to receive information concerning an error
on a previously sent data unit, and
should only be issued following a unit data error indication.
It informs the transport user that a data unit with a specific
destination address and protocol options produced an error.
.I fd
identifies the local transport endpoint through which the error
report will be received, and
.I uderr
points to a \f2t_uderr\f1 structure containing the following members:
.PP
.RS
struct netbuf addr;
.br
struct netbuf opt;
.br
long error;
.RE
.PP
\f2netbuf\f1 is described in \f2intro\f1(3N).
The
.I maxlen
[see \f2netbuf\f1 in \f2intro\f1(3N)] field of
.I addr
and
.I opt
must be set before issuing this function to indicate the maximum
size of the buffer for each.
.PP
On return from this call, the
.I addr
structure specifies the destination protocol address of the erroneous data
unit, the
.I opt
structure identifies protocol-specific options that were
associated with the data unit, and
.I error
specifies a protocol-dependent error code.
.PP
If the user does not care to identify the data unit
that produced an error,
.I uderr
may be set to \s-1NULL\s0 and 
.I t_rcvuderr
will simply clear the error indication without reporting any
information to the user.
.P
On failure, \f2t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 18
\s-1[TBADF]\s+1
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
\s-1[TNOUDERR]\s+1
No unit data error indication currently exists on the specified
transport endpoint.
.TP
\s-1[TBUFOVFLW]\s+1
The number of bytes allocated for the incoming protocol address or
options is not sufficient to store the information.
The unit data error information to be returned in
.I uderr
will be discarded.
.TP
\s-1[TNOTSUPPORT]\s+1
This function is not supported by the underlying transport
provider.
.TP
\s-1[TSYSERR]\s+1
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.br
.ne 5
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(3N), t_rcvudata(3N), t_sndudata(3N).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I t_rcvuderr
returns 0 on successful completion and \-1 on
failure and \f2t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
