.\"       Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T   
.\"       All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"       THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"       The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"       actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"
.TH T_RCVDIS 3N "630 Network Development Package" "\&"
.SH NAME
t_rcvdis \- retrieve information from disconnect
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmdtiuser.h>
.PP
.B int t_rcvdis(fd, discon)
.br
.B int fd;
.br
.B struct t_discon *discon;
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is used to identify the cause of a disconnect, and
to retrieve any user data sent with the disconnect.
.I fd
identifies the local transport endpoint where the connection existed,
and
.I discon
points to a \f2t_discon\f1 structure containing the following members:
.PP
.RS
struct netbuf udata;
.br
int reason;
.br
int sequence;
.RE
.PP
\f2netbuf\f1 is described in \f2intro\f1(3N).
.I reason
specifies the reason for the disconnect
through a protocol-dependent reason code,
.I udata
identifies any user data that was sent with the disconnect, and
.I sequence
may identify an outstanding connect indication with which the disconnect is
associated.
.I sequence
is only meaningful when
.I t_rcvdis
is issued by a passive transport user who has executed one or more
.I t_listen
functions and is processing the resulting connect indications.
If a disconnect indication occurs,
.I sequence
can be used to identify which of the outstanding connect indications is
associated with the disconnect.
.PP
If a user does not care if there is incoming data and does not need to
know the value of
.I reason
or
.IR sequence ,
.I discon
may be \s-1NULL\s+1
and any user data associated with the disconnect will be discarded.
However, if a user has retrieved
more than one outstanding connect indication (via
.IR t_listen )
and
.I discon
is \s-1NULL\s0,
the user will be unable to identify with which connect indication the
disconnect is associated.
.P
On failure, \f2t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 20
\s-1[TBADF]\s+1
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
\s-1[TNODIS]\s+1
No disconnect indication currently exists on the specified
transport endpoint.
.TP
\s-1[TBUFOVFLW]\s+1
The number of bytes allocated for incoming data is not
sufficient to store the data.
The provider's state, as seen by the user, will change to
\s-1T_IDLE\s0,
and the disconnect indication information to be returned in
.I discon
will be discarded.
.TP
\s-1[TNOTSUPPORT]\s+1
This function is not supported by the underlying transport
provider.
.TP
\s-1[TSYSERR]\s+1
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.bp
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(3N), t_connect(3N),
t_listen(3N),
t_open(3N),
t_snddis(3N).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I t_rcvdis
returns 0 on success and \-1 on failure and
\f2t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
