.\"       Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T   
.\"       All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"       THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"       The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"       actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"
.TH T_SND 3N "630 Network Development Package" "\&"
.SH NAME
t_snd \- send data or expedited data over a connection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmdtiuser.h>
.PP
.B int t_snd(fd, buf, nbytes, flags)
.br
.B int fd;
.br
.B char *buf;
.br
.B unsigned int nbytes;
.br
.B int flags;
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is used to send either normal or expedited data.
.I fd
identifies the local transport endpoint over which data should be sent,
.I buf
points to the user data,
.I nbytes
specifies the number of bytes of user data to be sent, and
.I flags
specifies any optional flags described below.
.PP
By default,
.I t_snd
operates in synchronous mode and may wait if flow control restrictions
prevent the data from being accepted by the local transport provider at
the time the call is made.
However, if \s-1O_NDELAY\s0 is set (via
.I t_open
or
.IR fcntl ),
.I t_snd
will execute in asynchronous mode, and will fail immediately if there
are flow control restrictions.
.PP \"bl86-19533
Even when there are no flow control restrictions, \f2t_snd\f1
will wait if \s-1STREAMS\s+1 internal resources are not available,
regardless of the state of \s-1O_NDELAY\s+1.
.PP
On successful completion,
.I t_snd
returns the number of bytes accepted by the transport provider.
Normally this will equal the number of bytes specified in
.IR nbytes .
However, if \s-1O_NDELAY\s0 is set, it is possible that only part of
the data will be accepted by the transport provider.
In this case, \f2t_snd\f1 will set \s-1T_MORE\s0 for the data that was
sent (see below) and will return a value less than
.IR nbytes .
If \f2nbytes\f1 is zero, no data will be passed to the provider and
\f2t_snd\f1 will return zero.
.PP
If \s-1T_EXPEDITED\s+1 is set in
.IR flags ,
the data will be sent as expedited data, and will be subject to the
interpretations of the transport provider.
.PP
If \s-1T_MORE\s+1 is set in
.IR flags ,
or is set as described above, an indication is sent to the transport provider that the transport service
data unit (\s-1TSDU\s+1) or expedited transport service data unit (\s-1ETSDU\s+1) is being sent through multiple
.I t_snd
calls.
Each
.I t_snd
with the \s-1T_MORE\s+1 flag set indicates that another
.I t_snd
will follow with more data for the current \s-1TSDU\s+1.
The end of the \s-1TSDU\s+1 (or \s-1ETSDU\s+1) is identified by a
.I t_snd
call with the \s-1T_MORE\s+1 flag not set.
Use of \s-1T_MORE\s0
enables a user to break up large logical data units without losing
the boundaries of those units at the other end of the connection.
The flag implies nothing about how the data is
packaged for transfer below the transport interface.
If the transport provider does not support the concept of a \s-1TSDU\s+1
as indicated in the
.I info
argument on return from
.I t_open
or
.IR t_getinfo ,
the \s-1T_MORE\s+1 flag is not meaningful and should be ignored.
.PP
The size of each \s-1TSDU\s+1 or \s-1ETSDU\s+1 must not exceed the limits of the
transport provider as returned by
.I t_open
or
.IR t_getinfo .
If the size is exceeded, a \s-1TSYSERR\s+1 with system error \s-1EPROTO\s+1 will occur.
However, the \f2t_snd\f1 may not fail because \s-1EPROTO\s+1 errors may not be reported immediately.
In this case, a subsequent call that accesses the transport endpoint will fail with the associated \s-1TSYSERR\s+1.
.P
If
.I t_snd
is issued from the
.SM T_IDLE
state, the provider may silently discard the data.
If
.I t_snd
is issued from any state other than \s-1T_DATAXFER\s+1, \s-1T_INREL\s+1 or \s-1T_IDLE\s+1,
the provider will generate a \s-1TSYSERR\s+1 with system error \s-1EPROTO\s+1 (which may be reported in the manner described above).
.P
On failure, \f2t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 20
\s-1[TBADF]\s+1
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
\s-1[TFLOW]\s+1
\s-1O_NDELAY\s0
was set, but
the flow control mechanism prevented the transport provider from
accepting data at this time.
.TP
\s-1[TNOTSUPPORT]\s+1
This function is not supported by the underlying transport
provider.
.TP
\s-1[TSYSERR]\s+1
A system error has been detected during execution of this function.
.SH SEE ALSO
fcntl(3N), t_open(3N), t_rcv(3N).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
On successful completion,
.I t_snd
returns the number of bytes accepted by the transport provider,
and it returns \-1 on failure and
.I t_errno
is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
