.\"       Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T   
.\"       All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"       THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"       The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"       actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"
.TH T_SNDDIS 3N "630 Network Development Package" "\&"
.SH NAME
t_snddis \- send user-initiated disconnect request
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmdtiuser.h>
.PP
.B int t_snddis(fd, call)
.br
.B int fd;
.br
.B struct t_call *call;
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is used to
initiate an abortive release on an already established connection or
to reject a connect request.
.I fd
identifies the local transport endpoint of the connection, and
.I call
specifies information associated with the abortive release.
.I call
points to a \f2t_call\f1 structure which contains the following members:
.PP
.RS
struct netbuf addr;
.br
struct netbuf opt;
.br
struct netbuf udata;
.br
int sequence;
.RE
.PP
\f2netbuf\f1 is described in \f2intro\f1(3N).
The values in
.I call
have different semantics, depending on the context of the call to
.IR t_snddis .
When rejecting a connect request,
.I call
must be non-\s-1NULL\s+1 and contain a valid value of
.I sequence
to uniquely identify the rejected connect indication to the transport provider.
The
.I addr
and
.I opt
fields of
.I call
are ignored.
In all other cases,
.I call
need only be used when data is being sent with the disconnect request.
The
.IR addr ,
.IR opt ,
and
.I sequence
fields of the
.I t_call
structure are ignored.
If the user does not wish to send data to the remote user,
the value of
.I call
may be \s-1NULL\s+1.
.PP
.I udata
specifies the user data to be sent to the remote user.
The amount of user data must not exceed the limits supported by
the transport provider as returned by
.I t_open
or
.IR t_getinfo .
If the
.I len
field of
.I udata
is zero,
no data will be sent to the remote user.
.P
On failure, \f2t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 19 
\s-1[TBADF]\s+1
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
\s-1[TOUTSTATE]\s+1
The function was issued in the wrong sequence.
The transport provider's outgoing queue may be flushed, so data may be lost.
.TP
\s-1[TBADDATA]\s+1
The amount of user data specified was not within the bounds allowed by
the transport provider.
The transport provider's outgoing queue will be flushed, so data may be lost.
.TP
\s-1[TBADSEQ]\s+1
An invalid sequence number was specified, or a
\s-1NULL\s0
call structure was specified when rejecting a connect request.
The transport provider's outgoing queue will be flushed, so data may be lost.
.TP
\s-1[TLOOK]\s+1
An asynchronous event has occurred on this transport endpoint and requires
immediate attention.
.TP
\s-1[TNOTSUPPORT]\s+1
This function is not supported by the underlying transport
provider.
.TP
\s-1[TSYSERR]\s+1
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(3N), t_connect(3N),
t_getinfo(3N),
t_listen(3N),
t_open(3N).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I t_snddis
returns 0 on success and \-1 on failure and
\f2t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
