.\"       Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T   
.\"       All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"       THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"       The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"       actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"
.TH T_SNDUDATA 3N "630 Network Development Package" "\&"
.SH NAME
t_sndudata \- send a data unit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmdtiuser.h>
.PP
.B int t_sndudata(fd, unitdata)
.br
.B int fd;
.br
.B struct t_unitdata *unitdata;
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function is used
in connectionless mode
to send a data unit to another transport
user.
.I fd
identifies the local transport endpoint through which data will be
sent, and
.I unitdata
points to a \f2t_unitdata\f1 structure containing the following members:
.PP
.RS
struct netbuf addr;
.br
struct netbuf opt;
.br
struct netbuf udata;
.RE
.PP
\f2netbuf\f1 is described in \f2intro\f1(3N).
In
.IR unitdata ,
.I addr
specifies the protocol address of the destination user,
.I opt
identifies protocol-specific options that the user wants
associated with this request, and
.I udata
specifies the user data to be sent.
The user may choose not to specify what protocol
options are associated with the transfer by setting the
.I len
field of
.I opt
to zero.
In this case, the provider may use default options.
.PP
If the
.I len
field of
.I udata
is zero, no data unit will be passed to the transport provider;
.I t_sndudata
will not send zero-length data units.
.PP
By default,
.I t_sndudata
operates in synchronous mode and
may wait if flow control restrictions prevent the data from
being accepted by the local transport provider at the time
the call is made.
However, if
\s-1O_NDELAY\s0
is set (via
.I t_open
or
.IR fcntl ),
.I t_sndudata
will execute in asynchronous mode and will fail
under such conditions.
.PP
If
.I t_sndudata
is issued from an invalid state,
or if the amount of data specified in
.I udata
exceeds the
\s-1TSDU\s0
size as returned by
.I t_open
or
.IR t_getinfo ,
the provider will generate an \s-1EPROTO\s0 protocol error.
(See \s-1TSYSERR\s+1 below.)
.P
On failure, \f2t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 18
\s-1[TBADF]\s+1
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
\s-1[TFLOW]\s+1
\s-1O_NDELAY\s0
was set, but
the flow control mechanism prevented the transport provider from
accepting data at this time.
.TP
\s-1[TNOTSUPPORT]\s+1
This function is not supported by the underlying transport
provider.
.TP
\s-1[TSYSERR]\s+1
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH SEE ALSO
intro(3N), fcntl(3N), t_open(3N), t_rcvudata(3N),
t_rcvuderr(3N).
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I t_sndudata
returns 0 on successful completion and \-1 on failure
\f2t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
.Ee
