.\"       Copyright (c) 1989 AT&T   
.\"       All Rights Reserved       
.\"
.\"       THIS IS UNPUBLISHED PROPRIETARY SOURCE CODE OF AT&T   
.\"       The copyright notice above does not evidence any     
.\"       actual or intended publication of such source code.  
.\"
.\"
.TH T_SYNC 3N "630 Network Development Package" "\&"
.SH NAME
t_sync \- synchronize transport library
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <dmdtiuser.h>
.PP
.B int t_sync(fd)
.br
.B int fd;
.SH DESCRIPTION
For the transport endpoint specified by
.IR fd ,
.I t_sync
synchronizes the data structures managed by the transport library
with information from the underlying transport provider.
This function allows two cooperating processes to synchronize their
interaction with a transport provider.
.PP
It is important to remember that the transport provider treats
all users of a transport endpoint as a single user.
If multiple processes are using the same endpoint, they should
coordinate their activities so as not to violate the state of the
provider.
.I t_sync
returns the current state of the provider to the user, thereby
enabling the user to verify the state before taking further
action.
This coordination is only valid among cooperating processes;
it is possible that a process or an incoming event could change the provider's state
.I after
a
.I t_sync
is issued.
.PP
If the provider is undergoing a state transition when
.I t_sync
is called, the function will fail.
.P
On failure, \f2t_errno\f1 may be set to one of the following:
.TP 19
\s-1[TBADF]\s+1
The specified file descriptor does not refer to a transport endpoint.
.TP
\s-1[TSTATECHNG]\s+1
The transport provider is undergoing a state change.
.TP
\s-1[TSYSERR]\s+1
A system error has occurred during execution of this function.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.I t_sync
returns the state of the transport provider on successful
completion and -1 on failure and \f2t_errno\f1 is set to indicate the error.
The state returned may be one of the following:
.TP 19
\s-1T_UNBND\s+1
unbound
.TP
\s-1T_IDLE\s+1
idle
.TP
\s-1T_OUTCON\s+1
outgoing connection pending
.TP
\s-1T_INCON\s+1
incoming connection pending
.TP
\s-1T_DATAXFER\s+1
data transfer
.TP
\s-1T_OUTREL\s+1
outgoing orderly release (waiting for an orderly release indication)
.TP
\s-1T_INREL\s+1
incoming orderly release (waiting for an orderly release request)
.Ee
