.TH DMDCC 1 "630 MTG"
.SH NAME
dmdcc \- 630 MTG C compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3dmdcc [\f1 options \f3]\f1 file ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I dmdcc
command is the 630 MTG C compiler. Any software to be downloaded
into the 630 MTG must be compiled using this command.
.PP
\fIDmdcc\fR works in a similar manner to
other compiler (cc) commands but is enhanced to call
\fImc68cpp\fR and \fImc68ld\fR
with special arguments for the 630 MTG development environment.
In particular,
the \fIdmdcc\fR command defines the variable \fBDMD630\fR,
it sets the include search path
to $DMD/include, it sets the library search path to $DMD/lib,
it includes the standard 630 MTG libraries, it links in the 630
MTG C
run-time start-up routine crtm.o, and it tells \fImc68ld\fR
to retain relocation information so the
resulting executable file can be relocated before download into the
630 MTG.
.PP
The exact arguments passed to \fImc68cpp\fR and \fImc68ld\fR
can be viewed by including the \fI-#\fR debugging argument on the
\fIdmdcc\fR command line.
.PP
The
\fIdmdcc\fR utility
accepts three types of arguments:
.RS 8
.B .c
.br
.B .s
.br
.B .o
.RE
.PP
Arguments whose names end with
.B .c
are the C source programs, and those with
.B .s
are the assembly programs.
They are compiled/assembled, and
each object program 
whose name is that of the source with
.B .o
substituted
.RB "for " .c " or " .s
is left in the file.
The
.B .o
file is normally deleted if a single
C program is compiled and link-edited all at one time.
.PP
The following flags are interpreted by
.I dmdcc\c
\&.
See
.IR mc68cpp (1),
.IR mc68as (1)
and
.IR mc68ld (1)
for other useful flags.
.PP
.TP 6
\fB\-c\fR
Suppress the link-editing phase of the compilation, and force
an object file to be produced even if only one program is compiled.
.PP
.TP 6
\fB\-g\fR
Flag to the compiler to produce additional information needed for the
use of
.IR dmdpi (1).
\}
.PP
.TP 6
\fB\-O\fR
Invoke an object-code optimizer.
The optimizer will move, merge, and delete code; this option should not be
used if it is expected that compiled code may be debugged with \fIdmdpi\fR(1).
.PP
.TP 6
\fB\-W\fIc\fB,\fRarg1[\fB,\fRarg2...]
Hand off the argument[s]
to pass
.I c
where
.I c
is one of
.RB [ p02al ]
indicating preprocessor,
compiler,
optimizer,
assembler,
or link editor, respectively. For example:
.RS 6
.ce
.B \-Wa,\-m
.br
invokes the \f2m4\f1 macro preprocessor on the input to the assembler.
.RE
.PP
.TP 6
\fB\-S\fR
Compile the named C programs, and leave the
assembler-language output on corresponding files suffixed
.BR .s .
.PP
.TP 6
\fB\-P\fR
Run only the macro preprocessor
on the named C programs, and leave the output on corresponding
files suffixed
.BR .i .
.TP 6
\fB\-E\fR
Same as the
.B \-P
option except the output is directed to the standard output.
This allows the preprocessor to be used as a filter for
any other compiler.
.PP
.TP 6
\fB\-#\fR
Debug flag. Show the command lines passed to \fImc68cpp\fR,
\fImc68ccom\fR, \fImc68as\fR and \fImc68ld\fR.
.PP
.TP 6
\fB\-x\fR
Turn off special processing for the 630 MTG environment. This argument should
not be used when compiling programs to be downloaded into the 630
MTG.
.PP
.TP 6
\f3\-Z\f1 \f2n\f1
Allocate \f2n\f1 bytes of stack for process. If not specified the
default is 2048, Note that stack size can be overridden at
download time with the \f2dmdld -Z\f1 option. If \f2n\f1 is
specified smaller than 2048, it is defaulted to 2048.
.PP
.DT
.br
.DT
.PP
Other arguments
are taken
to be either C preprocessor or link-editor flag arguments, or C-compatible
object programs, typically produced by an earlier
.I dmdcc
run,
or perhaps libraries of C-compatible routines.
These programs, together with the results of any
compilations specified, are link-edited (in the order
given) to produce an executable program with name
.B dmda.out
unless the
.B \-o
option of the link-editor is used.
.PP
The
.I dmdcc
command expects the \fBDMD\fR shell variable to be set and exported in
the user's environment.
This variable must point to the "root" directory of the 630 MTG software
node.
.PP
\fIDmdcc\fR tags the downloadable ouput file with a
programming envirionment identification number (PEID) which is
used by \fIdmdld\fR prior to download to verify copatibility
with terminal firmware. The PEID is determined by \fIdmdcc\fR
from the firmware routine linkages included in the process.
Every firmware routine called by the process causes a linkage
to the routine to be retrieved from archive and included in
the load module. Each of these linkage routines is tagged with
a PEID related to the firmware version that supports the
called firmware routine. The PEID associated with the latest
level of firmware required to support those linkages retrieved
from archive is tagged to the load module. Compatibility with
earlier firmware releases is maintained as long as new
firmware functions not supported by older firmware are not used
in the program.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 22
file.c
input file
.TP 22
file.o
object file
.TP 22
file.s
assembly language file
.TP 22
dmda.out
link-edited output
.TP 22
/usr/tmp/mc68?
temporary file
.TP 22
$DMD/lib/mc68cpp
preprocessor
.TP 22
$DMD/lib/mc68ccom
compiler
.TP 22
$DMD/lib/mc68optim
optimizer
.TP 22
$DMD/bin/mc68as
assembler
.TP 22
$DMD/bin/mc68ld
link loader
.DT
.PD
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
dmdpi(1),
mc68as(1),
mc68cpp(1),
mc68ld(1).
.br
m4(1) in the
\f2UNIX System V Programmer's Reference Manual\f1.
.br
.sp
.IR "The C Programming Language",
by Kernighan, B. W., and Ritchie, D. M.,
Prentice-Hall, 1978.
.br
.I Programming in C\-A Tutorial
by Kernighan, B. W.
.br
.I C Reference Manual
by Ritchie, D. M.
.br
.br
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The diagnostics produced by the C compiler are sometimes
cryptic.
Occasional messages may be produced by the assembler
or link-editor.
