.TH DMDCAT 1 "630 MTG"
.SH NAME
dmdcat - send files to a 630 MTG connected printer.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdmdcat\fR [ \f3\-s\f1 ] [ \f3\-b\f1 ] [ \f3\-v\f1 ] [
\f3\-u\f1 ] [ \f3\-t\f1 ] [ \f3\-e\f1 ] [ file\&.\&.\&. ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I dmdcat
command is intended to be used
to send files to a printer connected to the Printer port of the 630
MTG terminal.
\f2Dmdcat\f1 will send the concatenation of files specified on its
command line, or the standard input if no files are specified.
.PP
The data is sent to the terminal preceded by a \fIPrinter-On\fR Request
escape sequence, and is terminated by a \fIPrinter-Off\fR request
escape sequence.
The \fIPrinter-On\fR request escape sequence commands the terminal emulator to start
sending incoming data to the printer if the printer is available. The \fIPrinter-Off\fR request escape sequence tells
the terminal emulator to stop the sending.
The escape sequences sent are:
.RS 8
.ft CW
.sp
\f3Printer On\f1  - ESC[?5;1i
.sp
\f3Printer Off\f1 - ESC[?4i
.ft 1
.RE
.PP
If the \fB\-s\fR is present, \f2dmdcat\f1 uses this set of escape
sequences:
.RS 8
.ft CW
.sp
\f3Printer On (no screen)\f1  - ESC[?5;2i
.sp
\f3Printer Off (no screen)\f1 - ESC[4i
.ft 1
.RE
.sp
which tells the terminal emulator to start/stop
sending incoming data to the printer (if the printer is available) as before
but not to display this data on the screen.
.PP
The terminal responds with:
.RS 8
.ft CW
.sp
ESC[?\f3ps\f1i where:
.sp
\f3ps\f1=0 indicates printer was not granted
.sp
\f3ps\f1=1 indicates printer was granted.
.ft 1
.RE
.sp
If the printer was not granted, or if the terminal does not respond,
\fIdmdcat\fR displays a message and aborts.
.PP 
The second option, \fB\-b\fR, strips backspaces
from the output of \f2dmdcat\f1.
If backspaces result in two or more characters appearing
in the same place, only the last character read is output.
This means that the printed output appears exactly as it
appears on the 630 MTG screen, without bold and underline.
This option is useful for printers which either cannot process
backspaces or are slow in processing backspaces.
.PP
\fIDmdcat\fR is a shell program that calls \fIcat\fR(1) and will pass
the options \fB-u\fR, \fB-v\fR, \fB-t\fR, and \fB-e\fR to \fIcat\fR(1).

.SH FILES
$DMD/lib/dmdgetpr	reads terminal response

.SH SEE ALSO
cat(1), col(1) in the
\f2UNIX System V User Reference Manual\f1.
.br
\f2630 MTG Terminal User's Guide\f1.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
\f2Dmdcat\f1 uses the \f2col\f1(1) command to
strip backspaces with the \fB\-b\fR option.
\fICol\f1(1) is not available on all \s-1UNIX\s+1
systems.
The \fB\-b\fR option will give 
an error message if it cannot locate the \f2col\f1(1) command.
.PP
\f2Dmdcat\f1 only works if it is executed from 
the default 630 MTG terminal emulator or any terminal emulator that supports the
escape sequence sets described above. 
