.TH DMDVERSION 1 "630 MTG"
.SH NAME
dmdversion \- inquire terminal/host software version
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dmdversion 
[
.B \-ehlst
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I dmdversion
utility displays the version numbers of the 630 MTG terminal and host software.
The terminal version number is the equivalent to the ASCII
string which contains three fields (f1;f2;f3) defined as
follows:
.TP 1i
.B f1
identifies the 630 MTG as a windowing terminal
.TP
.B f2
identifies the terminal as a 630 MTG
.TP
.B f3
identifies the firmware release
.LP
.PP
Host software version is read from the file $DMD/VERSION.
.PP
The \f3\-t\f1 option is used to display the terminal version number.
The \f3\-h\f1 option is used to display the host software version
number. The default action is to display both terminal and
host software version numbers.
.PP
In the \fBlayers\fR environment, terminal version is found through an 
\fIioctl(2)\fR call to the
xt device driver. In non-layers, or if the \fB-e\fR flag is specified, the
terminal version is found through the Request Terminal Type escape sequence \fBESC[c\fR.
.PP
The \fB-l\fR option can be used to inquire if Local Area
Network (LAN) Encoding is set for the terminal
through terminal setup. This is found through the Request Encoding escape
sequence \fBESC[F\fR. This option excludes the \fB-e\fR option and does not
inquire the terminal version number.
.PP
When the \f3\-s\f1 flag is present, no output is printed but
an exit value is returned as follows. If the \f3\-t\f1 or
\f3\-e\f1 options are present, the decimal ascii value of the
last digit of the terminal's version is returned. If the
\f3\-l\f1 option is present, 1 is returned if LAN encoding is
enabled; 0 otherwise. The \f3\-l\f1 option will overide the
\f3\-t\f1 or \f3\-e\f1 options. In all other cases, 255 (-1) is
returned.
.SS EXAMPLE
The following example can be used to determine if a 630 MTG or
some other windowing terminal (such as a 5620) is being used.
.RS 6
.nf
.ft CM
case `dmdversion -t` in
   *'8;8'*)
        echo I am a 630
        ;;
   *'8;7'*)
        echo I am a 5620
        ;;
   *)
        echo Unknown terminal type
        ;;
esac
.fi
.ft R 
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP 22
$DMD/VERSION
the host version
.SH SEE ALSO
version(3R).
.br
ioctl(2) in the \f2UNIX System V Programmer's Reference Manual\f1.
.br
layers(1) in the UNIX System V Release 3 User's Reference
Manual.
.br
layers(1) in the 5620 Dot-Mapped Display Reference
Manual.
.br
\f2630 MTG Terminal User's Guide\f1.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The 
.B -e
and
.B -l
flags only work if the window connected to the standard output is
running the default 630 MTG terminal emulator or any other emulator that
supports the described escape sequences.


