.TH ICON 1 "630 MTG"
.SH NAME
icon \- interactive icon drawing program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B icon
[ \fB\-x\fR m ] [ \fB\-y\fR n ] [ \fB\-c\fR ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I icon
utility
is a menu-driven interactive icon and picture drawing program.
It runs under 
.I layers
using the "mouse" and keyboard for command and text entry.
The default \fIicon\fR display consists of a 50X50 cell grid in the
lower right-hand corner of the layer in which
.I icon
is invoked.  By invoking \fIicon\fR with the \fB\-x\fR and \fB\-y\fR flags,
the grid size may be specified to be \fIm\fRX\fIn\fR, overriding the default.
Each cell in this grid corresponds to a single bit in the 
.I icon
being created or edited.
In the upper left-hand corner of the layer,
an actual size view of the icon is displayed.
.P
The \f3\-c\f1 option causes icon to be cached in the 630 MTG
application cache.
.P
The grid size parameters \f2m\f1 and \f2n\f1 must be in the
range of 1 to 480. A parameter larger than 480 is reduced to
480, and a parameter smaller than 1 is set to the default
value of 50.
.P
If icon is invoked in a window that is too small for the
specified grid size, icon will display a grid icon in
the upper left corner of the window along with a message
``menu on button 2''. The window must be reshaped before icon
will continue. At this point a menu on button 2 will contain a
reshape selection. If selected, icon will automatically
reshape its window to a size and shape appropriate for the
grid size. Alternately, the button 3 reshape function can be
used to manually reshape the window. If at any time the window
is again reshaped to a size too small to display the selected
grid size, icon will redisplay the grid icon and the ``menu on
button 2'' message.
.P
When using icon, the meanings of the three mouse buttons are
as follows:
.TP 15
\f3Button 1\f1
Button 1, when depressed and held in, fills in the 
grid position pointed to by the mouse cursor.
.TP
\f3Button 2\f1
Button 2, when depressed and held in, clears the
grid position pointed to by the mouse cursor.
.TP
\f3Button 3\f1
Button 3, when depressed, displays a matrix of icons.
By moving the cursor (now a box) over the desired icon and releasing the
button, commands will be invoked.
If the command requires a section of the grid display to be
selected, depressing button 2 will select a 16x16 grid outline.
To specify other than this 16x16 grid outline,
depress button 3 and sweep out the rectangle you wish
the command to act on.
.bp
.SS Commands
The command selection matrix icons are described below from the upper left by rows
to the bottom right.
On the bottom row is a help command designated by the word "help."
.TP 25
\fBArrow\fR
move selection to another portion of the grid.
.TP
\fBCopier\fR
copy selection to another portion of the grid.
.TP
\fBBlack and white squares\fR
change light squares to dark and dark squares
to light (invert video).
.TP
\fBGarbage can\fR
erase.
.TP
\fBHorizontal wrap arrow\fR
flip on the x-axis.
.TP
\fBVertical wrap arrow\fR
flip on the y-axis.
.TP
\fBTo right and down arrow\fR
rotate 90 degrees clockwise.
.TP
\fBUp and to left arrow\fR
rotate 90 degrees counterclockwise.
.TP
\fBHorizontal lines\fR
shear along the x-axis.
.TP
\fBVertical lines\fR
shear along the y-axis.
.TP
\fBFour line sets\fR
stretch (expand).
.TP
\fBPinwheels\fR
take one pattern and make many copies of it.
.TP
\fBEyeglasses\fR
read an icon file.
.TP
\fBGrid\fR
draw a reference grid.
.TP
\fBMouse\fR
change current mouse cursor to selected 16 x 16 grid.
.TP
\fBQuill pen\fR
write an icon file.
.TP
\fBGrid, arrow to grid\fR
bitblt operator.  
.TP
\fBHELP\fR
prints the help menu.
.TP
\fBSmoking gun\fR
exit the \fIicon\fR program.
.SS Cursor Icons
The following are status indicator icons that the mouse cursor changes to
under various conditions:
.TP 25
\fBAlarm clock\fR
wait.
.TP
\fBDead Mouse\fR
mouse inactive.
.TP
\fBDark square in stack\fR
menu on button 3.
.TP
\fBSquare with arrow\fR
sweep rectangle (button 3).
.TP
\fBDouble square with arrow\fR
sweep rectangle (button 3)
or get 16x16 grid frame (button 2).
.bp
.SH FILES
.ta \w'$DMD/src/icons/texture/*     'u
$DMD/lib/icon.m	terminal support program
.br
$DMD/icons/*	icons
.SH SEE ALSO
ucache(1).
.br
layers(1) in the
\f2UNIX System V Release 3 User's Reference Manual\f1.
.br
layers(1) in the
\f25620 Dot-Mapped Display Reference Manual\f1.
