.ds ZZ DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH LOADFONT 1 "630 MTG"
.XE "loadfont"
.SH NAME
loadfont \- font managing program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B 
loadfont [\-r name,name...] [\-p directory] [\-s] [\-c] [file...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I loadfont
program lets the user load and remove fonts from the terminal's cache.
It will download its terminal side which interacts with
the user. The command line arguments have the following meanings:
.PP
.TP 12
\fB\-r\fR
Removes the given font from the terminal's cache.
.PP
.TP 12
\fB\-p\fR
Sets default search path for font files. If this isn't set,
it defaults to $DMD/termfonts. All the file names in this directory
are put in the load submenu.
.TP 12
\fB\-s\fR
Makes loadfont stay running after executing the earlier command line options.
.PP
.TP 12
\fB\-c\fR
Causes loadfont to be cached in the 630 MTG cache system. When
this option is used, the loadfont program will remain in the
terminal after the program exits. Then, the next time loadfont
is executed, it will not have to be downloaded again.
.sp
Another effect of downloading loadfont with the \-c option is
that it can be executed in more than one window without
additional downloading.
.PP
.TP 12
\fBfile\fR
Loads the given font file into the terminal's cache.
.PP
If a \f3file\f1 argument and/or the
\f3\-r\f1 option are given, loadfont will exit after
loading/removing the specified fonts, unless the \f3\-s\f1 is
also given to make it stay running.
.PP
The user interacts with
.I loadfont
by using a button 2 menu and, when prompted, the keyboard.
When button 2 is depressed, a menu with the following items appears.
.PP
.TP 8
\fBLoad\fR
Load has a submenu of fonts that can be downloaded.
The fonts listed are all the files in the default search directory.
If the first item, Keyboard, is selected, the user is prompted
for the name of a font file to download.
.PP
.TP 8
\fBRemove\fR
Remove has a submenu of all the fonts in the terminal's cache.
Selecting one will remove it from the cache and free the memory
it was using. Fonts in ROM or being used by another process
will be greyed in the menu and cannot be removed.
.PP
.TP 8
\fBQuit\fR
Will make the program exit.
.PP
While a font is downloading, the button 2 menu will have only
one item, Terminate Download. Selecting it will stop the download
and switch the user back to the original menu.
.PP
The three fonts in ROM, resident to the 630 MTG, are called "small
font," "medium font," and "large font."  Brief descriptions of these
fonts follow.
.PP
In the tables, 
.I  cell size
indicates the dimensions of the rectangle containing the character
image.  All the characters in a particular font have the same cell size.
.I Character size
is the dimension of the largest character in the font.  
.I Max chars 
indicates how many characters in that font size will fit 
horizontally and vertically in a full screen
window.  See the section on fonts in the 
\f2630 MTG Software Development Guide\f1
for more information on font data structures.
.sp
.TS
center, box, tab(~);
lb | l.
Font Name~small font
Character Size~6 pixels wide by 9 pixels high
Cell Size~7 pixels wide by 14 pixels high
Max Chars~140 across, 69 down
_
Font Name~medium font       
Character Size~8 pixels wide by 11 pixels high
Cell Size~9 pixels wide by 14 pixels  high        
Max Chars~109 across, 69 down
_
Font Name~large font        
Character Size~9 pixels wide by 12 pixels high  
Cell Size~11 pixels wide by 16 pixels high
Max Chars~89 across, 61 down
_
.TE
.bp
.SH FILES
The default search path for font files is $DMD/termfonts. This
directory contains nine fonts.
.sp 2
.TS
center, box, tab(~);
lb | l.
Font Name~noseprint         
Character Size~5 pixels wide by 7 pixels high 
Cell Size~6 pixels wide by 9 pixels high
Max Chars~163 across, 108 down
Comments~The characters are a single pixel thick and all
~are smaller than the characters found in the 
~resident "small font".
_
Font Name~7x14thin          
Character Size~6 pixels wide by 9 pixels high
Cell Size~7 pixels wide by 14 pixels high
Max Chars~140 across, 69 down
Comments~The difference between "7x14thin" and the resident 
~"small font" is in the thickness of the characters.
~The "7x14thin" consists of characters which are a  
~single pixel in thickness whereas the "small font" 
~consists of characters which are two pixels in thickness.
_
.TE
.bp
.TS
center, box, tab(~);
lb | l.
Font Name~12x18norm         
Character Size~10 pixels wide by 13 pixels high
Cell Size~12 pixels wide by 18 pixels high
Max Chars~81 across, 54 down
Comments~The characters are 2 pixels thick.
_
Font Name~12x25thin                 
Character Size~9 pixels wide by 18 pixels high 
Cell Size~12 pixels wide by 25 pixels high 
Max Chars~81 across, 39 down
Comments~The characters are a single pixel thick.
_
Font Name~12x25norm         
Character Size~9 pixels wide by 18 pixels high 
Cell Size~12 pixels wide by 25 pixels high
Max Chars~81 across, 39 down
Comments~The characters are 2 pixels thick.
_
Font Name~12x25round        
Character Size~9 pixels wide by 18 pixels high 
Cell Size~12 pixels wide by 25 pixels high
Max Chars~81 across, 39 down
Comments~The main difference between this font and the 
~font called "12x25norm" is in the STYLE of the
~characters. The characters in "12x25round" are
~rounder in appearance, whereas the characters in
~"12x25norm" are squarer in appearance.
_
Font Name~12x25BOLD
Character Size~9 pixels wide by 18 pixels high
Cell Size~12 pixels wide by 25 pixels high 
Max Chars~81 across, 39 down
Comments~The characters are 3 pixels thick.
_
Font Name~script
Character Size~15 pixels wide (approx.) by 15 pixels high
Cell Size~16 pixels wide by 24 pixels high
Max Chars~61 across, 40 down
Comments~The characters in this font are created in 
~script style.
_
Font Name~twice_big  
Character Size~18 pixels wide by 24 pixels high
Cell Size~22 pixels wide by 32 pixels high
Max Chars~44 across, 30 down
Comments~The characters are twice as tall and twice as 
~wide as the resident "large font"
_
.TE
.bp
.SH SEE ALSO
ucache(1), font(4).
.br
\f2630 MTG Software Development Guide\f1.
.SH WARNING
.P
Fonts that do not have 128 characters require the proper
parity setting when used in the default window process in the
non-layers environment. This is needed because a mod is done
on characters received from the host with the number of
characters in the font being used.
.P
This implies that parity bits are ignored for fonts with
exactly 128 characters, since c&0x7F == c%128. Fonts with less
than 128 characters need identical parity settings on the host
and in the terminal so that parity bits get stripped properly.
Characters with more than 128 characters require 8 bits with
no parity on both the host and in the terminal, because the
eighth bit is used to access characters greater than
128.
