.TH MC68NM 1 "630 MTG"
.SH NAME
mc68nm \- print name list of a MC68000 object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\f3mc68nm [\f1 options \f3]\f1 file-names
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I mc68nm\^
command
displays the symbol table of each
Motorola 68000 object file
.IR file-name .
.I File-name\^
may be a relocatable or absolute Motorola 68000 object file;
or it may be an archive of relocatable or absolute Motorola 68000 object files.
For each symbol, the following information is printed.
For the \f3TYPE\f1, \f3SIZE\f1, or \f3LINE\f1 information,
the object file must be compiled with the
\f3-g\f1 option of the \f2dmdcc\f1(1) command.
.PP
.TP 9
.B Name
The name of the symbol.
.TP 9
.B Value
Its value expressed as an offset or an address
depending on its storage class.
.TP 9
.B Class
Its storage class.
.TP 9
.B Type
Its type and derived type.
If the symbol is an instance of a structure or of a union, then the structure
or union tag is given following the type (e.g. struct-tag).
If the symbol is an array, then the array dimensions are given 
following the type (eg.,
.BR char[ n ][ m ] ).
.TP 9
.B Size
Its size in bytes, if available.
.TP 9
.B Line
The source line number at which it is defined, if available.
.TP 9
.B Section
For storage classes static and external,
the object file section containing the symbol (e.g., text, data or bss).
.DT
.br
.PP
The output of
.I mc68nm
may be controlled using the following options:
.\" .if !'mc68'' \{\
.\" .PP
.\" .TP 9
.\" .B \-a
.\" Produce full output.  Redundant symbols (.text, .data, and .bss),
.\" normally suppressed, are printed.
.\" \}
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-d
Prints the value and size of a symbol in decimal (the default).
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-o
Prints the value and size of a symbol in octal instead of decimal.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-x
Prints the value and size of a symbol in hexadecimal instead of decimal.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-h
Does not display the output header data.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-v
Sorts external symbols by value before they are printed.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-n
Sorts external symbols by name before they are printed.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-e
Prints only external and static symbols.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-f
.\" .ie 'mc68'' \{\
Produces full output.  Prints redundant symbols (.text, .data and .bss),
that are normally suppressed.
.\" \}
.\" .el \{\
.\" ``Fancy'' output is produced; that is, the symbol table information
.\" is post-processed to reflect the block structure of the source code.
.\" \}
.bp
.TP 9
.B \-u
Prints undefined symbols only.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-V
Prints the version of the mc68nm command executing on the standard error output.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-T
By default,
.I mc68nm\^
prints the entire name of the symbols listed.
Since object files can have symbol names with an arbitrary number of 
characters, a name that is longer than the width of the column set aside
for names will overflow its column, forcing every column after the name
to be misaligned.  The 
.B \-T
option causes
.I mc68nm\^
to truncate every name which would otherwise overflow its column and
place an asterisk as the last character in the displayed name to mark
it as truncated.
.DT
.br
.PP
Options may be used in any order, either singly or in combination,
and may appear anywhere in the command line.
Therefore, both 
.B "mc68nm name \-e \-v"
and
.B "mc68nm \-ve name"
print the static and external symbols in
.IR name ,
with external symbols sorted by value.
.SH "FILES"
/usr/tmp/nm??????
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dmdcc(1),
mc68as(1),
mc68ld(1).
.br
a.out(4), ar(4) in the \f2UNIX System V Programmer's Reference
Manual\f1.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.TP 9
``mc68nm:  name:  cannot open''
if
.I name
cannot be read.
.PP
.TP 9
``mc68nm:  name:  bad magic''
if
.I name
is not an appropriate Motorola 68000 object file.
.PP
.TP 9
``mc68nm:  name:  no symbols''
if the symbols have been stripped from
.IR name .
.SH "WARNINGS"
When all the symbols are printed, they must be printed in the order they
appear in the symbol table in order to preserve scoping information.
Therefore, the
.B \-v
and
.B \-n
options should be used only in conjunction with the
.B \-e 
option.
