.TH MC68DUMP 1 "630 MTG" 
.tr ~
.SH NAME
mc68dump \- dump parts of an MC68000 object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mc68dump
.RB [ \-acfghlorst ]
.RB [ \-z " name]"
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I mc68dump
command
dumps selected parts of each
of its object \fIfile\fP arguments.
.PP
This command
accepts both object files and archives of object files.
It 
processes each file argument according to one or more of the following 
options:
.TP \w'\fB\-d~number~~'u
.B \-a
Dumps the archive header of each member of each archive file
argument.
.TP
.B \-g
Dumps the global symbols in the symbol table of a 6.0 archive.
.TP
.B \-f
Dumps each file header.
.TP
.B \-o
Dumps each optional header.
.TP
.B \-h
Dumps section headers.
.TP
.B \-s
Dumps section contents.
.TP
.B \-r
Dumps relocation information.
.TP
.B \-l
Dumps line number information.
.TP
.B \-t
Dumps symbol table entries.
.TP
.BR \-z ~name
Dumps line number entries for the named function.
.TP
.BR \-c
Dumps the string table.
.PP
The following \fImodifiers\fP are used in conjunction with the options
listed above to modify their capabilities.
.TP \w'\fB\-d~number~~'u
.BR \-d ~number
Dumps the section number or range of sections starting at \fInumber\fP
and ending either at the last section number or \fInumber\fP specified by
.BR +d .
.TP
.BR +d ~number
Dumps sections in the range either beginning with 
first section or beginning
with section specified by \fB\-d\fP.
.TP
.BR \-n ~name
Dumps information pertaining only to the named entity.
This
.I modifier
applies to
.BR \-h ,
.BR \-s ,
.BR \-r ,
.BR \-l ,
and 
.BR \-t .
.TP
.B \-p
Suppresses printing of the headers.
.TP
.BR \-t ~index
Dumps only the indexed symbol table entry.
The 
\f3-t\f1,
used in conjunction with
.BR +t ,
specifies a range of symbol
table entries.
.TP
.BR +t ~index
Dumps the symbol table entries in the range ending with the indexed entry.
The range begins at the first symbol table entry or at the entry
specified by the 
.B \-t
option.
.TP
.B \-u
Underlines the name of the file for emphasis.
.TP
.B \-v
Dumps information in symbolic representation rather than numeric
(e.g.,
.SM C_STATIC
instead of 
.BR \s-10X02\s+1 ).
This \fImodifier\fP can be used with all the above options
except
.B \-s
and
.B \-o
options
of
.IR mc68dump.
.TP
.BR \-z ~name,number
Dumps line number entry or range of line numbers starting at
.I number
for the named function.
.TP
.BR \+z ~number
Dumps line numbers starting at either function
.IR name " or " number
specified 
by
.BR \-z,
up to
.I number
specified by
.BR +z .
.PP
.PP
Blanks separating an \fIoption\fP and its \fImodifier\fP are optional.
The comma separating the name from the number modifying the
.B \-z
option may
be replaced by a blank.
.PP
The
.B -z
and
.B -n
options that take a
.I name
modifier will only work with object files that have been compiled
with the
.B "dmdcc \-g"
option.
.PP
The
.I mc68dump
command
attempts to format the information it dumps in a meaningful way,
printing certain information in character,
hex, octal or decimal representation as appropriate.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dmdcc(1).
.br
a.out(4), ar(4) in the \f2UNIX System V Programer's
Reference Manual\f1.
.tr ~~
