.TH MC68DIS 1 "630 MTG" 
.SH NAME
mc68dis \- MC68000 disassembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mc68dis
.RB [ \-o ]
.RB [ \-V ]
.RB [ \-L ]
.RB [ \-d " sec]"
.RB [ \-da " sec ]"
.RB [ \-F " function]"
.RB [ \-t " sec]"
.br
.RB [ \-l " string]"
files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I mc68dis
command
produces an assembly language listing
of each of its
object
.IR file
arguments.
The listing includes
assembly
statements
and a hexadecimal or octal representation of the binary that
produced those statements.
.PP
The following \fIoptions\fP are
interpreted by the disassembler and may be specified in any order.
.PP
.TP 12
.B \-o
Prints numbers in octal.
Default is hexadecimal.
.PP
.TP 12
.B \-V
Version number of the disassembler is written to standard error.
.PP
.TP 12
.B \-L
Invokes a look-up of C source labels in the symbol table for
subsequent printing.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-d " sec"
Disassembles the 
named section as data,
printing the offset of
the data from the
beginning of the section.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-da " sec"
Disassembles the 
named section as data,
printing the actual 
address of the data.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-F " function"
Disassembles the
named function
in each object file
that is specified
on the command line.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-t " sec"
Disassembles the
named section as text.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-l " string"
Disassembles the
library file specified
as
.IR string .
For example,
one would issue the
command
.B "mc68dis \-l x \-l z"
to disassemble
.B libx.a
and
.B libz.a\c
\&.
All libraries are
assumed to be in
.BR $DMD/lib .
.DT
.br
.PP
If the
.BR \-d ,
.B \-da
or
.BR \-t
options are specified,
only those named
sections from each
user supplied file name
are disassembled.
Otherwise, all sections
containing text will
be disassembled.
.PP
If the
.BR \-F
option is specified,
only those named 
functions from each
user supplied file name
are disassembled.
.B \-F
only works with object files that have been compiled with the
.B "dmdcc -g"
option.
.bp
.PP
On output, a number enclosed in brackets
at the beginning of a line,
such as 
.BR [5] ,
represents a C break-pointable line number that
starts with the following instruction.
These line numbers are present only when the
object file has been compiled with the
.B "dmdcc -g"
option.
An expression such as
.B <40>
in the operand field,
following a relative displacement
for control transfer instructions,
is the computed address
within the section to which
control is transferred.
Similarly, an expression such as
\f3<40>+%d0\f1,
following a program counter index plus displacement
operand, indicates that the effective address
of the operand in the current section is 40 plus the content of %d0.
A C function name
will appear in the first column,
followed by
.BR (\|) ,
if the function was compiled with
.BR -g .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dmdcc(1),
mc68as(1),
mc68ld(1).
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
The self-explanatory diagnostics
indicate errors in
the command line or problems
encountered with the
specified files.
