.TH MC68STRIP 1 "630 MTG"
.SH NAME
mc68strip \- strip symbolic information from MC68000 object file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mc68strip
.RB [ \-l ]
.RB [ \-m ]
.RB [ \-x ]
.RB [ \-r ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.if 'mc68'3b' \{\
.RB [ \-f ]
.\}
.RB [ \-V ]
file-names
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I mc68strip
command
strips the symbol table and line number information from
Motorola 68000 object files,
including archives.
Once this has been done, no symbolic debugging access
is available for that file; therefore, this command is
normally run only on production modules that have
been debugged and tested.
.PP
The amount of information stripped from the symbol table
can be controlled by using the following options:
.PP
.TP 9
.BR \-l
Strips line number information only;
does not strip any symbol table information.
.PP
.TP 9
.BR \-m
Strips symbol table information only;
does not strip any relocation information.
Used for 630 MTG applications which need relocation information for downloads,
but do not neccesarily need symbol table information.
This option does not work on archives.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-x
Does not strip static or external symbol information.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-r
Resets the relocation indices into the symbol table.
.if 'mc68'3b' \{\
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-f
Removes the relocation information from an executable object file
for all sections not of type COPY. Reset
relocation indices into the symbol table for all retained relocation
information.
.\}
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-s
Resets the line number indices into the symbol table (does not remove).
Resets the relocation indices into the symbol table.
.PP
.TP 9
.B \-V
Prints the version of the mc68strip command executing on the standard error output.
.DT
.br
.PP
If there are any relocation entries in the object file and any symbol
table information is to be stripped,
.I mc68strip
will complain and terminate without stripping
.I file-name
unless the
\f3\-r\f1 or \f3\-m\f1
flags are used.
.PP
If the 
.IR mc68strip
command is executed on a common archive file [see
.IR ar (4)]
the archive symbol table will be removed.  The archive
symbol table must be restored by executing the
.IR mc68ar (1)
command with the 
.B s
option before the archive can be
link edited by the 
.IR mc68ld (1)
command.  
.IR Mc68strip (1)
will instruct the user with appropriate warning messages when this
situation arises.
.PP
The purpose of this command is to reduce the file storage
overhead taken by the object file.
.SH "FILES"
/usr/tmp/mc68str??????
.SH "SEE ALSO"
dmdcc(1),
mc68ar(1),
mc68as(1),
mc68ld(1).
.br
a.out(4), ar(4) in the \f2UNIX System V Programmer's
Reference Manual\f1.
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.TP 9
mc68strip:  name:  cannot open
.br
	if
.I name
cannot be read.
.PP
.TP 9
mc68strip:  name:  bad magic 
.br
	if
.I name
is not a Motorola 68000 object file.
.PP
.TP 9
mc68strip:  name:  relocation entries present; cannot strip 
.br
	if
.I name
contains relocation entries and the
\f3\-r\f1 or \f3\-m\f1
flag is not used,
the symbol table information cannot be stripped.
.PP
.TP 9
mc68strip:  name:  other options set with "m" option 
.br
   	if
other flags are used with the -m option which is mutually exclusive. 
.PP
.TP 9
mc68strip:  "m" option not allowed on archive files 
.br
        if
file name is an archive file.
