.TH MC68AS 1 "630 MTG"
.SH NAME
mc68as \- \*N MC68000 assembler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR mc68as
.RB "[" \-o " objfile]"
.if 'mc68'x86' .RB \-x
.if 'mc68'3b' .RB "[" \-Q "]"
.RB "[" \-n "]"
.RB "[" \-m "]"
.RB "[" \-R "]"
.RB "[" \-V "]"
file-name
.SH DESCRIPTION
The 
.I mc68as
command
assembles the named file.
.if 'mc68'b16' \{\
The output file is executable if no errors
occurred during the assembly, transfer vectors were not used,
and there are no unresolved external references.\}
The following flags
may be specified in any order:
.TP \w'\fB\-o\fP\ \fIobjfile\fP\ \ 'u
.BI \-o " objfile"
Puts the output of the assembly in
.IR objfile .
By default, the output file name is formed by
removing the 
.B .s
suffix, if there is one, from the input file name
and appending a 
.B .o
suffix.
.if 'mc68'x86' \{\
.TP
.B \-x
This
flag is
.I required
for all x86 files.
\}
.if 'mc68'3b' \{
.TP
.B \-Q
Warn the user if a transfer vector operand is used
in any context other than a "call" instruction.
\}
.TP
.B \-n
Turns off long/short address optimization.
By default, address optimization takes place.
.TP
.B \-m
Runs the 
.I m4
macro pre-processor
on the input to the assembler.
.TP
.B \-R
Removes (unlinks) the input file after assembly
is completed.
.TP
.B \-V
Writes the version number of the assembler being run
on the standard error output.
.SH FILES
.RI /tmp/mc68a[A-L]AAa XXXXXX
temporary files
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mc68ld(1),
mc68nm(1),
mc68strip(1).
.br
a.out(4) in the \f2UNIX System V Programmer's Reference
Manual\f1.
.br
m4(1) in the
\f2UNIX System V User's Reference Manual\f1.
.br
\f2UNIX Assembler User's Guide for the Motorola 68000\f1 in the
\f2630 MTG Software Development Guide\f1.
.SH WARNING
.if 'mc68'3b' \{
.PP
If the input file does not contain a 
.B .file
assembler directive and the
.B \-m
flag was not specified,
the file name given by the assembler when an
error occurs is one of the temporary files
.RB ( /usr/tmp/mc68as \s-1XXXXXX\s+1)
\}
.PP
If the 
.B \-m
.RI ( m4
macro pre-processor invocation) option is used,
keywords for
.I m4
.RI "[see " m4 (1)]
cannot be used as symbols (variables, functions, labels)
in the input file since
.I m4
cannot determine which are assembler symbols and 
which are real 
.I m4
macros.
.SH BUGS
The
.B even
assembler directive is not guaranteed to work
in the
.B .text
section when optimization is performed.
.PP
Arithmetic expressions may only have
one forward referenced symbol per expression.
