.SA 1
.ds ZZ DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE
.TH MC68CONV 1 "630 MTG"
.SH NAME
mc68conv \- \*N MC68000 object file converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mc68conv
.RB [ \- ]
.RB [ \-a ]
.RB [ \-o ]
.RB [ \-p ]
.RB [ \-s ]
.B -t
target files
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.I mc68conv
command
converts \*N object files from their current format to the format
of the
.I target
machine.
Mc68conv can read an archive file in any of three formats:
the
.SM UNIX
pre-5.0 format, the 5.0 random access format, and the
6.0 portable
.SM ASCII
format.
It produces a file in the format specified
.RB ( -a ,
.BR -o ,
or
.BR -p ).
The converted file is written to
file\c
.I .v\c
\&.
.PP
Command line options are:
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-
indicates 
.I files
should be read from
.I stdin\c
\&.
.PP
.TP 12
.B \-a
If the input file is an archive, produces the ouput file in the
6.0 portable ASCII archive format.
.PP
.TP 12
.B \-o
If the input file is an archive, produces
the output file in the UNIX pre-5.0 format.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-p
If the input file is an archive, produces the ouput file in the
UNIX 5.0 random access archive format.
This is the default.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-s
Functions exactly as 3bswab, i.e. "preswab"
all characters in the object file.  This is useful only for AT&T
3B20 Computer object files which are to be "swab-dumped" from a DEC machine
to a 3B20 Computer.
.PP
.TP 12
.BR \-t " target"
Converts the object file to the byte ordering of the 
machine (\f2target\f1) to which the object file is being shipped.  This
may be another host or a target machine.  Legal values for
.I target
are: pdp, vax, ibm, i80, x86, b16, n3b, m32, and mc68.
.PP
Mc68conv can be used to convert all object files in common object file
format. It can be used on either
the source ("sending") or target ("receiving") machine.
.PP
Mc68conv is meant to ease the problems created
by a multi-host cross-compilation development environment. Mc68conv is best
used within a procedure for shipping object files from one machine to
another.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.nf
# ship object files from pdp11 to ibm
$echo \(**.out | mc68conv -t ibm -$OFC\/foo.o
$uucp \(**.v my370!~\/rje\/
.fi
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
All diagnostics are
intended to be self-explanatory. Fatal diagnostics on the command
lines cause termination. Fatal diagnostics on an input file cause the
program to continue to the next input file.
.bp
.SH "WARNINGS"
.PP
Mc68conv will not convert archives from one format to another if
both the source and target machines have the same byte ordering.
The
.SM UNIX
tool
.IR convert (1)
should be used for this purpose.
